The current issue and full text archive of this journal is available on Emerald Insight at:
www.emeraldinsight.com/0264-0473.htm

A comprehensive concept map
for adequate protection and
effective management of
personal information in
networked Chinese services
Xiaomi An

Information in
networked
Chinese
services
1047
Received 3 April 2014
Revised 10 September 2014
30 October 2014
Accepted 1 December 2014

Key Laboratory of Data Engineering and Knowledge Engineering of the
Ministry of Education, and School of Information Resources Management,
Renmin University of China, Beijing, China

Wenlin Bai
School of Information Resources Management,
Renmin University of China, Beijing, China

Hepu Deng
School of Information Resources Management, Renmin University of
China, Beijing, China, and School of Business Information Technology and
Logistics, RMIT University, Melbourne, Australia

Shuyang Sun, Yu Dong and Wenrui Zhong
School of Information Resources Management,
Renmin University of China, Beijing, China, and

Jufang Hu
University Library, Renmin University of China, Beijing, China
Abstract
Purpose – This paper aims to develop a comprehensive concept map to guide adequate protection and
effective management of personal information in the provision of networked services in China through
comprehensively considering the multi-disciplinary perspective of personal information protection and
management with respect to their multi-dimensional applications, multi-directional controls and
multi-contextual analysis in today’s networked environments. There are different perspectives on what
personal information protection and management is about, why and how personal information should
be protected and managed in the literature. Little, however, is known about the relationships between

This research is financially supported by The National Social Science Foundation of China Major
Program (Project number: 13 &ZD 184), the Fundamental Research Funds for the Central
Universities, and the Research Funds of Renmin University of China (No. 15XNLQ08) and the
Beijing National Social Science Foundation (Project number: 13&ZHB103). The authors wish to
thank Sha Liu, Yongni Yu, Li Zheng and Hao Chen for collecting data of online survey to help this
study.

The Electronic Library
Vol. 33 No. 6, 2015
pp. 1047-1064
© Emerald Group Publishing Limited
0264-0473
DOI 10.1108/EL-04-2014-0059

EL
33,6

1048

these multiple perspectives and their implications to personal information protection and management
in the real-world practice.
Design/methodology/approach – A multi-methods approach is adopted in the study, including a
comprehensive review of the related literature, a content analysis of the relevant laws, polices,
standards, a multi-cases study of the relevant network services providers and an online survey of the
Chinese citizens who are the end-users of the networked services to adequately achieve the objective of
this study. The concept map building technique is used as a tool for conducting the meta-synthesis of
the findings from multiple data resources in the development of a comprehensive concept map for
personal information protection and management.
Findings – This study rationalizes the importance of the identification of personal information for
adequate protection and effective management. It identifies five perspectives on personal information
protection and management, namely, law, economics, sociology, information technology and
information resources management for their applications at the organizational level. Five types of
personal information are identified in the study for protection and management, namely, identifiable
personal information, personal identity information, personal moral right information, personal civil
right and interest information and personal business and transaction information. An integrated
approach consisting of risk control, security control and users control is proposed for personal
information protection and management in the provision of networked services in China. The study
shows that not enough attention has been paid to the personal information protection and management
from multi-disciplinary perspectives with respect to their multi-dimensional applications,
multi-directional controls and multi-contextual analysis in the literature. There is a lack of
understanding of what, why and how personal information is protected and managed in real-world
practices in China.
Practical implications – The investigation of the issues of personal information protection and
management with respect to the relevant laws, polices, standards, networked services and
organizations can lead to a better understanding of what, why and how personal information is
protected and managed in real-world practices in China. The development of a comprehensive concept
map for personal information protection and management can be used as an effective guideline for the
formulation and implementation of appropriate strategies and policies in individual organizations for
providing their stakeholders with quality-networked services in today’s highly connected network
environment in China.
Originality/value – The paper is the first step of a comprehensive study on the protection and
management of personal information for the provision of networked services in China. It provides a
solid foundation for further research with respect to the personal information protection and
management. It is the first of this kind of studies to answer the questions of what types of personal
information needed to be protected, why and how they should be protected in conformity with laws,
regulations, polices, standards and the needs of networked services and business activities of
organizations.
Keywords China, Information resources management, Personal information protection,
Networked services
Paper type Research paper

1. Introduction
With the rapid development of e-government and e-business in China (Molla and Deng,
2009), an increasing amount of personal information is collected, processed, shared and
stored while providing networked services to support business collaborations and
innovations (An et al., 2014) within and across organizations. This leads to numerous
problems in handling personal information, including excessive collection of personal
information, publishing personal information without consent and illegal selling of

personal information (Li, 2009; Mu et al., 2013; Sun, 2014). As a result, adequately
protecting and effectively managing personal information is becoming critical for the
sustainable development of the information economy in China (Byrne et al., 2005).
Protecting and managing personal information for information security in
organizations is necessary for building a secured, trusted and well-organized
information consumption market in China, according to the State Council’s Opinions on
Promotion Information Consumption of China (State Council, 2013). Numerous laws
and regulations have been developed in China and various strategies and policies have
been formulated for facilitating the integration and sharing of personal information to
provide citizens with one-stop networked services in the National Development Reform
Committee (2014). There are, however, few actions plans and management mechanisms
for protecting and managing personal information in networked services throughout
their entire life in organizations.
Much research has been done in China on personal information protection and
management, leading to the development of various perspectives on what personal
information protection and management is about, as well as why and how personal
information should be protected and managed (Hong, 2010; Jiang, 2008; Kong, 2009;
Lang et al., 2008; Sun, 2014; Yao, 2012; Zhang, 2006). Little, however, is known about the
relationship between different perspectives on personal information protection and
management and their implications to real-world practice. Few studies have been
conducted to identify the requirements for personal information protection and
management with respect to existing laws (An et al., 2011; Zhang, 2006). Furthermore,
existing studies have been limited to the identification of various personal information
protection and management problems that may affect people’s lives (Li, 2009; Sun,
2014). There has been little research performed to understand what types of personal
information exist that need adequate protection and effective management (Mu et al.,
2013).
This paper develops a comprehensive concept map for guiding adequate protection
and effective management of personal information in providing networked services in
China. A multi-methods approach is adopted in the study, including a comprehensive
review of the related literature, a content analysis of the relevant laws, policies and
standards, a multi-cases study of the network service providers and an online survey of
citizens who are the end-users of the networked services. The concept map building
technique is used for the meta-synthesis of the research findings from multiple data
sources. This leads to the identification of the different types of personal information
and the development of a comprehensive concept map for adequate protection and
effective management of personal information in the provision of networked services in
China.
The paper is structured as follows. Section 2 presents a review of the related literature
on personal information protection and management from a discipline-based
perspective. Section 3 investigates the classification of personal information for
protection and management with respect to existing Chinese laws and regulations. This
paves the way for the identification of the types of personal information for protection
and management in the provision of networked services in China in Section 4. Section 5
presents the result of the online survey, leading to the development of a comprehensive
concept map for personal information protection and management in a networked
service environment in China.

Information in
networked
Chinese
services
1049

EL
33,6

1050

2. Discipline-based personal information protection and management
Personal information protection and management is about the protection of individuals
with respect to the processing and management of personal information (Mu et al., 2013;
Sun, 2014). This involves obtaining, recording and holding personal information and
carrying out operations on the information, such as collecting, organizing, adapting,
altering, disclosing, sharing, disseminating, aligning, combining, blocking, erasing and
destroying personal information during various activities.
There is an increasing need for personal information protection and management in
the world due to the concern of individuals about how their personal data are collected,
used and shared (Bélanger and Crossler, 2011). With the rapid advance of information
and communication technologies (Tian et al., 2008), the fast development of electronic
government (Deng, 2008; Karunasena and Deng, 2012) and the increasing collection and
sharing of personal information through the provision of various networked services
(Sun, 2014), adequate protection and effective management of personal information is
becoming increasingly critical for every organization in today’s networked
environment.
The importance of protecting and managing personal information in a networked
environment stimulates much research in this area (Bélanger and Crossler, 2011; Beldad
et al., 2011; Bulgurcu, 2012). A review of the related research in China revealed that five
disciplines were present in this area, including law (Yao, 2012; Zhang, 2006), economics
(Hildebrandt et al., 2013; Murphy, 1995), sociology (Beldad et al., 2011; Bulgurcu, 2012),
information technology (Bélanger and Crossler, 2011; Xia et al., 2007) and information
resources management (An et al., 2011; Sun, 2014). In each discipline, there were
different concerns and focuses on why and how personal information should be
protected and managed.
The law-oriented personal information protection and management focuses on the
preservation of an individual’s privacy and the respect for personal and human dignity
(Jiang, 2008; Kong, 2009; Zhang, 2006). With the consideration of this perspective for
personal information protection and management, specific legislations and regulations
are developed and implemented for the protection and management of the right to
privacy, the right to be informed and tort. Such protection and management is often
carried out at the national level with an emphasis on the security of personal information
and their authorized use in the process of providing citizens with networked services
(Yao, 2012).
The economics-based personal information protection and management encourages
a fair use of personal information in a networked society (Hildebrandt et al., 2013;
Murphy, 1995; Nam et al., 2006; Zwick and Dholakia, 2001). With such a view, personal
information is treated as information assets for businesses and individuals. The
adequate protection and effective management of these information assets can be
achieved by balancing the property right and the civil right in a specific society. Usually,
the development of the code of conduct is commonly used for this purpose. Such
protection is at the professional level with a focus on a consent access and a secured use
of personal information.
The sociology-based personal information protection and management aims at
maintaining social order to protect human dignity and civil rights and to minimize
the negative impact of personal information use on the society (Beldad et al., 2011;
Bulgurcu, 2012; Wilkinson and Thelwall, 2011). This is realized through developing

the awareness of citizens on their obligations for personal information protection
and management. Such protection is at the societal level with a focus on good
behaviours at information collecting, storage and access in conformity with the
moral rights, ethical norms and the code of conduct in a society.
The information technology-based personal information protection and
management strives to provide secured services in today’s dynamic environment
(Ackerman, 2004; Bélanger and Crossler, 2011; Shilton et al., 2009; Xia et al., 2007). To
effectively protect and manage personal information, numerous information security
management techniques, including protocols, password and authentication are widely
used (Alkalbani et al., 2014). Such protection is at the system level with a focus on the
security of individual systems in organizations.
The information resources management-oriented personal information protection
and management tries to avoid leaks and violations of personal information (An et al.,
2011; Barber, 2006; Mu et al., 2013; Sillitoe, 1998; Wu, 2014). This is because such leaks
and violations bring harms to the interest of individuals and public administration
which may affect the national security in some circumstances. To adequately protect
and manage personal information from this perspective, the entire life of personal
information throughout their collection, storage and access needs to be effectively
managed. Such protection is at the service level with a focus on the provision of secured
services.
There are multi-dimensional views on personal information protection and
management from the national, professional, societal, system and service perspectives
(An et al., 2011). An investigation of the relationship between different perspectives
leads to the development of a discipline-based concept map for personal information
protection and management as shown in Figure 1. The concept map shows that personal
information protection is the major focus of all the personal information studies. There
is only one disciplinary area referred to as information resources management that pays
attention to personal information management. From this perspective, personal
information should be managed as organizational resources and protected as business
assets (An et al., 2011; Mu et al., 2013). With this in mind, an integrated approach has to
be developed for the protection and management of personal information along the life
of personal information in the provision of networked services.
Developing an integrated approach for personal information protection and
management requires a comprehensive understanding of existing laws and regulations
in this area (An et al., 2011; Mu et al., 2013). An investigation of the laws and regulations
on personal information protection and management in the most comprehensive
Chinese legal database (pkulaw.cn) shows that there are 29 relevant laws in China. A

Information in
networked
Chinese
services
1051

Perspectives on
personal information for protection and management

Information
technology
(system)

Sociology
(society)

Science of law
(national)

protection

Economics
(professional)

Information
resources
management
(process)

management

Figure 1.
A discipline-based
concept map for
personal information
protection and
management

EL
33,6

1052

critical analysis of these laws shows that there is no clear definition on what personal
information is about in these laws. There are five types of personal information for
protection and management, which are as follows:
(1) identifiable information;
(2) identity information;
(3) business and transaction information;
(4) moral right information; and
(5) civil right and interest information.
Identifiable information consists of names, addresses, working units, photos, images,
correspondence letters, dairy, e-mail messages and other materials that can be used to
identify individuals. There are three laws in China, including the Law of the People’s
Republic of China on Prevention of Juvenile Delinquency (2012), the Law of the People’s
Republic of China on the Protection of Minors (2012) and the Criminal Procedure Law of
the People’s Republic of China (2012), that directly define what identifiable personal
information is about.
Identity information refers to identity cards, passports and customer identity
materials. These materials have rich personal information that can be used to uniquely
identify individuals in any circumstances. Three laws were introduced in China for
protecting personal identity information, including the Passport Law of the People’s
Republic of China (2006), the Anti-Money Laundering Law of the People’s Republic of
China (2006) and the Law of the People’s Republic of China on Resident Identity Cards
(2011).
Business and transaction information includes finance transaction records, medical
records and mail. Three laws are relevant for the appropriate definition of such personal
information and their effective protection, including the Anti-Money Laundering Law of
the People’s Republic of China (2006), the Tort Law of the People’s Republic of China
(2009) and the Postal Law of the People’s Republic of China (2012).
Moral right information refers to women’s pictures relevant to reputation, honour,
privacy, portrait and other personality right information. Due to the importance and
sensitivity of such personal information, the Law of the People’s Republic of China on the
Protection of Women’s Rights and Interests (2005) was introduced for adequately
protecting and effectively managing such type of personal information.
Civil right and interest information refers to the data about personal liberties related
to the right to life, the right to health, the right to reputation, the right to honour, the right
to portrait, privacy right, the right to free choice of marriage, guardianship and
ownership, real right for usufruct, real rights granted by way of security and copyright,
patent right, exclusive right to use trademarks, the right of discovery, stock right, right
of succession and property right and interests. The Tort Law of the People’s Republic of
China (2009) was introduced for protecting such personal information in Chinese
society.
Figure 2 shows the relationship between the types of personal information for
protection and management based on existing Chinese laws. Based on this relationship,
an adequate control of the identifiable personal information is a key to personal
information protection and management (Sun, 2014).

3. Classification of personal information for networked services
Much personal information is collected, processed and shared across various platforms
and organizations in the provision of networked services in China (Ministry of Industry
and Information Technology of the People’s Republic of China, 2013a; Standing
Committee of the National People’s Congress, 2012). An investigation of the relevant
laws, regulations and standards with respect to the provision of networked services in
China shows that there are no laws existent on personal information protection and
management for networked services. There are only five policies (Ministry of Industry
and Information Technology of the People’s Republic of China, 2013b, 2013c;
Standardization Administration of the People’s Republic of China, 2012; Standing
Committee of the National People’s Congress, 2012; State Administration for Industry
and Commerce, 2014) that have specific concerns about personal information protection
and management. These policies define personal information as identifiable information
which can be classified into different categories for different concerns according to
different regulatory and authority documents. Figure 3 shows a concept map for
personal information protection and management with respect to networked services in
conformity with the Chinese regulations, policies and standards.
Personal information can be classified into personal general information and
personal sensitive information for protection and management (Standardization
Administration of the People’s Republic of China, 2012). Personal general information is
referring to information that is not sensitive. Personal sensitive information is
information that can bring negative impacts to identifiable information subjects once it
is leaked or revised, such as an individual’s identification card number, telephone
number, nationality, political attitude, religion, DNA and fingerprint. Such a
classification can be used for personal information protection and management based
on the professional and industry recommendations with respect to the provision of

Information in
networked
Chinese
services
1053

Personal information

identity

private business
and transanction

moral right

civil right and
interests

Figure 2.
A law-based concept
map for personal
information
protection and
management

Privacy

Sensitive
information

Figure 3.
A concept map for
personal information
protection and
management in
networked services

Identifiable
information

Personal information

General
information

Identity

Identifiable
information

EL
33,6

1054

networked services. It provides a guideline for the authorized use of personal
information through the process of collecting, processing and sharing of personal
information (Standardization Administration of the People’s Republic of China, 2012).
Personal general information is the electronic personal identity information and
electronic personal privacy information collected and used in the provision of network
services (General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of
the People’s Republic of China and Standardization Administration of the People’s
Republic of China, 2012). Such information has to be protected. The application of the
law above is mandatory for network service providers, relevant enterprises and
individuals. The legitimate, proper and necessary collecting and adequate use of
personal information in conformity with the laws and regulations is required (Standing
Committee of the National People’s Congress, 2012).
Personal sensitive information refers to user information, such as a user’s name, birth
date, ID card number, address, telephone number, account, password and relevant
information (General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine
of the People’s Republic of China and Standardization Administration of the People’s
Republic of China, 2012). Such information can be used to identify the user and the time
and place he or she used networked services. The protection and management of such
information is mandatory for network service providers and other stakeholders
(Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the People’s Republic of China,
2013b, 2013c; State Administration for Industry and Commerce, 2014).
The discussion above shows that there are multi-disciplinary perspectives for
personal information protection and management with respect to the multi-dimensional
nature of the personal information. Different types of personal information that need to
be protected based on the law in China are shown in Figure 2. The types of personal
information shown in Figure 3 have to be protected in networked services with respect
to regulations, policies and standards. To adequately protect and manage personal
information, an integrated concept map is developed (Figure 4). Such a concept map
shows that protection and management of personal information is not only required to
be in conformity with legal requirements, social obligations, economic benefits and
quality systems but also for the provision of quality networked services. To achieve this,
an appropriate classification of personal information with respect to multi-disciplinary
concerns and their multi-dimensional applications is desirable, as such a classification
provides all the stakeholders in personal information protection and management with
opportunities for their adequate protection and effective management in a networked
service environment.
4. Research methodology
To understand how people who use networked services think about personal
information protection and management and to identify how personal information is
protected and managed in their work practices, a multi-cases study is conducted. The
multi-cases study involves conducting interviews, document analysis and visiting
websites of the selected cases. The cases selected from six cities in China consist of three
public information resources service providers (A1, A2 and A3), six provincial and
municipal archives repositories (B1, B2, B3, B4, B5 and B6), five urban development
specialist archives repositories (C1, C2, C3, C4 and C5) and two network information

Protection as
requirements
(legal perspective
national-dimension)
Identifiable
information

Protection and
management as services
(IRM perspective
process-dimension)

Protection as ethics
(sociology perspective
society-dimension)

Protection as benefits
(economic perspective
professional-dimension)

Protection as properties
(information technology
perspective
system-dimension)

Perspective of protection

Personal identity
Private business
Civil rights

Information in
networked
Chinese
services

Personal indentity

privacy

1055

Personal general information

Personal sensitive information
Userÿ
s personal information

Userÿ
s identifiable information

Types of personal
information

service providers (D1 and D2). The criteria for case selection are the relevancy,
reputation of network service providers and accessibility.
A semi-structured interview of more than one hour is conducted with the senior
manager of the case organization. The interview process is recorded with the consent of
the interviewees. Document analysis and website visits are conducted to prepare the
interview to understand why and how personal information is protected and managed
based on the organizational policies, standards and guidelines. Ground theory is used
for guiding the data analysis. Individual concepts and classifications are reviewed for
ensuring the reliability and consistency of the research findings. The research findings
from interview, document analysis and website visits are summarized below.
5. Results and discussion
Public information resources service providers The study shows that A1 and A3
provide the public with networked services. A2, however, only provides special
networked services to urban planning authorities. All the interviewees agreed that
personal information is collected, processed, deleted and used in their business activities
to satisfy their business objectives. There are specific security control mechanisms
existing for personal information protection and management within their information
security management systems. No independent and separated personal information
protection statements, however, can be identified within each organization.
Provincial and municipal archives repositories The six public archival information
services institutions investigated have provided one-stop service platforms for sharing
various types of Minsheng archival resources within their regions. Minshen archival
resources refers to the records relevant to an individual’s daily life, such as real estate
archives, marriage archives, family planning/birth control archives and education
archives. These archival resources are important evidence of a person’s identity and
activities within a community or organization. There are three types of users who can

Figure 4.
Integrated concept
map for personal
information
protection and
management in
network services

EL
33,6

1056

access such archives, including the creators of the archives, the creating agencies and
others who have legitimate and appropriate rights to use the archives. All users have to
provide valid documents, such as an ID card, household register, and similar, for
accessing the archives. The six public archives service providers agreed that they have
well-organized user-control mechanisms for sharing and reusing personal information
in their care. There are, however, no independent and separated personal information
protection and management statements within each organization as in the case above.
Urban development archives specialist repositories The five specialist repositories
provide networked services to their professional administrative authorities as part of
e-government services to support open access to government information and to ensure
the accountability of their services in urban planning and construction project
supervision. Their networked services, however, are not open to the public. Their
organizations are concerned more about serving the government. As a result, they have
not paid much attention to personal information protection and management.
Business networked information services providers The two business information
resources providers agreed that they provide networked services for enterprise-wide
use. Their services are not designed for the public. As a result, personal information
protection and management is not specifically stressed in their organizations.
A majority of the organizations investigated have specific control mechanisms for
personal information protection and management in their operations. Few of them,
however, are fully aware of the specific laws, regulations, polices and standards
available to guide their work for personal information protection and management. All
the organizations visited agreed that there is an increasing demand for personal
information protection and management in conformity with the laws, regulations and
policies available in China.
Different types of networked services have different concerns about personal
information protection and management. The networked public services, for example,
have the strongest demand due to the increasing expectation of the public for the
delivery of public services and the accountability for public organizations to perform
with respect to their missions. The networked information service providers, on the
other hand, have the weakest demand due to the nature of their operations. This
suggests that there is an increasing demand for promoting the awareness of the need for
personal information protection and management in today’s networked society (Adaem
and Amnuay, 2013; Bulgurcu, 2012). To facilitate the protection and management of
personal information, a practice-oriented concept map for personal information
protection and management with respect to the provision of networked services is
developed and shown in Figure 5.
The motivation for personal information protection and management is to facilitate
the provision of better networked services and ensure the accountability of individual
organizations (Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress, 2012). The legal
requirements, however, are still unknown due to the existence of separate laws for
personal information protection and management. As a result, an integrated approach,
as shown in Figure 6, is required for effective personal information protection and
management in China. Such an approach consists of security control and user control
based on the classification of personal information for protection and management in
practices.

6. A comprehensive concept map for personal information protection and
management
To understand whether people think about the personal information as general
information or sensitive information, whether individual organizations have
personal information and whether these organizations have measures for their
protection and management, an online survey was conducted between June-August
2014 in Beijing, China. The survey instrument was developed based on the review of
the related literature and the findings from the multi-cases study above. The
questions in the survey instrument are organized into five sections, namely,
identifiable information, identity information, business and transaction
information, moral right information and civil right and interest information. A pilot
study was carried out for ensuring the validity and reliability of the research
findings from the survey.
In all, 314 valid questionnaires were received. business enterprises constituted 54
per cent, 33 per cent from government agencies and 13 per cent from other types of
organizations. The sample represents common understandings of personal
information protection and management in different organizations. Among the
respondents, 43 per cent of respondents were from the business department, 22 per
cent were from the general office, 16 per cent were from the information technology

Information in
networked
Chinese
services
1057

Personal information

Personal general
information

Personal sensitive
information
Personal identifiable information
Private business and transactions information

Personal indentity
information

Personal civil right and interest information

Personal information
protection approach

Methods of control

Networked services

Security control

Government information
resources services providers

Risk control

Public networked services

User control

Provincial and municipal
archives repositories

Figure 5.
A practice-oriented
concept map for
personal information
protection and
management in
networked services

Figure 6.
An integrated
approach for
personal information
protection and
management in
networked services

EL
33,6

1058

department, 17 per cent were from the personnel and finance division and 11 per cent
were from other departments. This shows that the sample represents various
perspectives of different disciplinary fields and their concerns about personal
information protection and management in different business activities. Table I
presents the survey results.
Identifiable personal information. There are different views on what identifiable
personal information is about based on the survey. Table I shows that over 50 per
cent of respondents choose name, gender, political status, colour, birth place and
education background as general information. More than 50 per cent of respondents
selected birthday, fingerprints, physical traits, blood type, DNA, residential
address, working unit, information with personal pictures or images and personal
signature as sensitive information. A number of respondents (40 per cent) have their
personal information like name, gender, birth date and political status recorded in
their organizations. Nearly a third (30 per cent) of respondents have their personal
information, including residential address, education background, working unit,
Category of
personal
information
Identifiable
information

Identity
information

Business and
transaction
information

Table I.
Types of personal
information for
protection from
surveys

Moral right
information
Civil rights and
interests
information

Sensitive information (over
50% agreement)

General information
(over 50% agreement)

Birthday, fingerprints, physical
traits, type of blood, DNA,
residential address, working
unit, personal pictures or
images and personal signature
Identification card and relevant
evidential documents, passport
information, household
register, driver’s license and
records, social security number,
customer identity information
and member of professional
societies
Bank accounts, personal
income, tax information, real
estate information, work
transferring information,
telephone record, e-mail
address, correspondence, diary,
e-mail, IP address, passwords,
questions and answers for
passwords, message accounts,
social media accounts and
messages
0

Name, gender, political
status, birth place and
education

Marriage, social security,
children and care groups
information, donations,
pensions, sexual life, health and
birth status

Personal preferences
and interests

0

Occupational
information and work
experience

0

Personal information in
organizations (over 20%
of organizations)
Name, gender, birth date,
political status,
residential address,
education, working unit,
pictures and signature
Identification card,
evidential documents,
passport information,
household register,
driver’s license, social
security number,
customer identity and
member details
Finance affairs
information, personal
income, tax information,
real estate information,
occupational
information, work
experience information,
work transferring
information, e-mail
address and IP address
0
Marriage, social security
and giving birth status
information

information with personal pictures and personal signature, listed with their
organizations. Fewer than 14 per cent of the respondents have their personal
information like fingerprints, physical traits, blood type, colour and DNA in their
organizations. Even fewer (under 20 per cent) of the respondents have adequate
measures for their protection.
Personal sensitive information. There is a convergent view on what personal
sensitive information is about based on the survey. Table I indicates that over 53 per
cent of the respondents choose all the listed personal identity information as
personal sensitive information, including the identification card and relevant
evidential documents, passport information, household register, driver’s license and
records, social security number, customer identity information and membership in
professional societies. Over 20 per cent of the organizations have all the above types
of personal information. However, less than 23 per cent of the organizations have
specific mechanisms for the protection and management of personal sensitive
information.
Personal business and transaction information. There is increasing attention on
safeguarding of personal financial information in today’s networked society
(Sprague and Ciocchetti, 2009). Table I shows that over 50 per cent of the
respondents choose personal finance information such as bank accounts, personal
income, tax information, real estate information, work transferring information,
telephone record, e-mail address, correspondence letter, diary, e-mail, IP address,
passwords, questions and answers for passwords, instant message accounts, social
media accounts and content of messages as sensitive information. More than 50 per
cent of respondents choose occupational information and work experience as
general information. Over 20 per cent of the organizations have access to the
personal information listed above. It is notable that less than 18 per cent of the
respondents have specific mechanisms for the protection and management of
sensitive information.
Personal moral right information. This type of personal information refers to the
sensitive information that can cause conflicts and negative impacts on individuals as
well as organizations. It includes criminal records, court orders, political attitude, family
history information and religion (Lior, 2011; Watley and May, 2004). There is no
response to all the questions from the respondents on this question. It seems that such
personal information is not relevant to the respondents and their organizations with
respect to their protection and management.
Personal civil rights and interest information. There is an increasing amount of
attention being paid to protect and manage personal civil right and interest information
(Zwick and Dholakia, 2001). Table I shows that over 55 per cent of the respondents
choose information, including marriage, social security, information about children and
adults groups who need special care, donation of remains, pension planning, sexual life,
health and medical care and giving birth status, as sensitive information. A fairly larger
majority (68 per cent) of the respondents choose personal preferences and interests as
general information. Over 20 per cent of the organizations have marriage, social security
and giving birth status information. Less than 14 per cent of the organizations have
specific mechanisms for the protection and management of this type of sensitive
information.

Information in
networked
Chinese
services
1059

EL
33,6

1060

The study notes that personal moral right information is not regarded in real-world
practices as relevant to organizations. Results show that personal identity information
is all regarded as the sensitive information which needs special security controls
(Sprague and Ciocchetti, 2009). Personal business and transaction information, personal
identifiable information and personal civil right information are complex. This is
because these types of personal information include both general information and
sensitive information. As a result, they need to be identified with respect to the different
concerns of the stakeholders in specific situations for the provision of secure services in
a networked environment.
The study shows that not enough effort has been taken for the development of
appropriate mechanisms with respect to personal information protection and
management in the process of providing stakeholders with networked services in
China. A meta-synthesis of the research findings from multiple data sources as
above was conducted. This led to the development of a comprehensive concept map
for personal information protection and management in China (Figure 7).
7. Conclusions
The paper fills in gaps in the literature by investigating the types of personal
information for protection and management with respect to the relevant laws,
policies, standards, networked services and organizations. It develops a
comprehensive concept map for the adequate protection and effective management
of personal information in the provision of networked services in China along the
entire life of personal information and throughout the entire management process.
The investigation of the issues of personal information protection and management
with respect to the relevant laws, policies, standards, networked services and
organizations can lead to a better understanding of what, why and how personal
information is protected and managed in real-world practices in China. The
development of a comprehensive concept map for personal information protection
Concept map building for
Personal Information for Protection and
Management
Perspectives and
perceptions

Effective and Adequate Controls

From books and
journals

Multi-disciplinary perspectives-laws,
economics, sociology, IT, IRM, etc.

From laws

Multi-dimensional applications-national,
society, professional, system, process

Requirements

From policies

Figure 7.
A comprehensive
concept map for
personal information
protection and
management

Guidelines

From standards

From investigations
and surveys

Multi-directional
controlsrisk control,
security control and
user control, etc.

Multiple aspects
concernsidentification of
types of personal
information in
practice for
classified controls

and management can be used as an effective guideline for the formulation and
implementation of appropriate strategies and policies in individual organizations
for providing their stakeholders with quality networked services in today’s highly
connected network environment in China.
The paper is the first step of a comprehensive study on the protection and
management of personal information for the provision of networked services in
China. It is the first of this kind of study to answer the questions of what types of
personal information need to be protected, as well as why and how they should be
protected in conformity with laws, regulations, policies, standards and needs of
networked services and business activities of organizations. It provides a solid
foundation for further research with respect to personal information protection and
management.
References
Ackerman, M.S. (2004), “Privacy in pervasive environments: next generation labeling protocols”,
Personal and Ubiquitous Computing, Vol. 8 No. 6, pp. 430-439.
Adaem, K. and Amnuay, Y. (2013), “Assessing privacy protection in alumni service”,
International Journal of Computer and Electrical Engineering, Vol. 5 No. 4, pp. 424-429.
Alkalbani, A., Deng, H. and Kam, B. (2014), “A conceptual framework for information security in
public organizations for e-government development”, Proceedings of the 25th Australasian
Conference on Information Systems, 8-10 December, ACIS, Auckland.
An, X., Deng, H., Chao, L. and Bai, W. (2014), “Knowledge management in support of collaborative
innovation community capacity building”, Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. 18
No. 3, pp. 574-590.
An, X., Mu, Y., Wang, W., Liu, J.J., Wang, W. and Ye, L.Q. (2011), “Analysis of current legal and
regulatory requirements for personal information protection and management in China”,
Beijing Archives, No. 5, pp. 19-21.
Barber, G. (2006), “Personal information in government records: protecting the public interest in
privacy”, Saint Louis University Public Law Review, Vol. 25 No. 1, pp. 63-121.
Bélanger, F. and Crossler, R.E. (2011), “Privacy in the digital age: a review of information privacy
research in information systems”, MIS Quarterly, Vol. 35 No. 4, pp. 1017-1042.
Beldad, A., Jong, M. and Steehouder, M. (2011), “A comprehensive theoretical framework for
personal information-related behaviors on the Internet”, The Information Society, Vol. 27
No. 4, pp. 220-232.
Bulgurcu, B. (2012), “Understanding the information privacy-related perceptions and behaviors of
an online social network user”, Doctoral Dissertation, University of British Columbia.
Byrne, J., Martin, B., Deng, H. and Halpin, E. (2005), “The movement to an information society: a
comparison of Australia and other leading information society countries”, Proceedings of
the 5th European Conference on E-Government, pp. 85-92.
Deng, H. (2008), “Towards objective benchmarking of e-government: an inter-country analysis”,
International Journal of Transformational Government: People, Process and Policy, Vol. 3
No. 4, pp. 162-176.
General Administration of Quality Supervision, Inspection and Quarantine of the People’s
Republic of China and Standardization Administration of the People’s Republic of
China (2012), Personal Information Protection Guidelines for Public and Commercial
Service Information System of Information Security Technology, China Standards
Press, Beijing.

Information in
networked
Chinese
services
1061

EL
33,6

1062

Hildebrandt, M., O’Hara, K. and Waidner, M. (Eds.) (2013), Digital Enlightenment Yearbook 2013:
The Value of Personal Data, IOS Press, Amsterdam.
Hong, H. (2010), Personal Information Civil Law Protection, Law Press, Beijing.
Jiang, P. (2008), Personal Data Information Protection by Laws, Chinese University of Political
Science and Law University Press, Beijing.
Karunasena, K. and Deng, H. (2012), “Critical factors for evaluating the public value of
e-Government in Sri Lanka”, Government Information Quarterly, Vol. 29 No. 1, pp. 76-84.
Kong, L. (2009), Privacy Protection of Personal Data, Wuhan University Press, Wuhan.
Lang, Q.B., Sun, Y. and Yang, L. (2008), Introduction to Personal Information Protection, People’s
Press, Beijing.
Li, L. (2009), Development Report about Rule of Law in China No. 7, Social Science Documentation
Press, Beijing.
Lior, Z. (2011), “Moral rights: limited edition”, Boston University Law Review, Vol. 91,
pp. 1519-1568.
Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the People’s Republic of China (2013a),
“Regulations of personal information protection of telecommunications and internet users”,
available at: www.miit.gov.cn/n11293472/n11294912/n11296542/15514014.html.
Regulations (accessed 7 September 2014).
Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the People’s Republic of China (2013b),
“Provisions on protecting the personal information of telecommunications and internet
users”, available at: www.miit.gov.cn/n11293472/n11293832/n12843926/n13917072/
15514067.html (accessed 22 March 2014).
Ministry of Industry and Information Technology of the People’s Republic of China (2013c),
“Notice of the ministry of industry and information technology on strengthening the
network access management of mobile intelligent terminals”, available at: http://
opinion.news.chengdu.cn/topic/2013-10/31/content_1305121.htm?node⫽12022 (accessed 27
August 2014).
Molla, A. and Deng, H. (2009), “Business participation in third party controlled e-marketplace: an
exploratory model”, International Journal of e-Business Management, Vol. 3 No. 1,
pp. 20-34.
Mu, Y., Wang, W. and An, X. (2013), “Development of personal information protection system for
government agencies”, Informatization Construction, No. 1, pp. 22-25.
Murphy, R.S. (1995), “Property rights in personal information: an economic defense of privacy”,
Georgetown Law Journal, No. 84, pp. 2381-2417.
Nam, C., Song, C., Lee, E. and Park, C.I. (2006), “Consumers’ privacy concerns and willingness to
provide marketing-related personal information online”, Advances in Consumer Research,
Vol. 33 No. 1, pp. 212-217.
National Development Reform Committee (2014), “The state commission office of public sectors
reform, ministry of industry and information technology, etc.”, Notice of Work Relevant to
Fostering Implementation of Information Services Project Benefit to People, available at:
www.mof.gov.cn/zhengwuxinxi/zhengcefabu/201401/t20140116_1036140.htm (accessed
27 August 2014).
Shilton, K., Burke, J.A., Estrin, D., Govindan, R., Hansen, M., Kang, J. and Mun, M. (2009),
“Designing the personal data stream: enabling participatory privacy in mobile personal
sensing”, available at: http://ssrn.com/abstract⫽1999839 (accessed 22 March 2014).
Sillitoe, P.J. (1998), “Privacy in a public place: managing public access to personal information
controlled by archives services”, Journal of the Society of Archivists, Vol. 19 No. 1, pp. 5-15.

Sprague, R. and Ciocchetti, C. (2009), “Preserving identities: protecting personal identifying
information through enhanced privacy policies and laws”, Albany Law Journal of Science
and Technology, Vol. 19 No. 1, pp. 91-142.
Standardization Administration of the People’s Republic of China (2012), GB/Z28828-2012
Personal Information Protection Guidelines for Public and Commercial Service Information
System of Information Security Technology, China Standards Press, Beijing.
Standing Committee of the National People’s Congress (2012), “Decision on the standing
committee of the national people’s congress on strengthening information protection on
networks”, available at: http://news.hexun.com/2012-12-28/149603728.html (accessed 27
August 2014).
State Administration for Industry and Commerce (2014), “Administrative measures for on line
trading”, available at: www.law-lib.com/law/law_view.asp?id⫽443546 (accessed 27
August 2014).
State Council (2013), “Opinions on promotion information consumption of China”, available
at: www.js.xinhuanet.com/2013-08/15/c_116951133.htm (accessed 27 August 2014).
Sun, S. (2014), “A study about the relationship between personal information utilization and
protection in internet environment”, Master’s Dissertation, Renmin University of China,
Beijing.
Tian, X., Martin, B. and Deng, H. (2008), “The impact of digitization on business models for
publishing: some indicators from a research project”, Journal of Systems and Information
Technology, Vol. 10 No. 3, pp. 232-250.
Watley, L. and May, D. (2004), “Enhancing moral intensity: the role of personal and consequential
information in ethical decision making”, Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 50 No. 2,
pp. 105-126.
Wilkinson, D. and Thelwall, M. (2011), “Researching personal information on the public web:
methods and ethics”, Social Science Computer Review, Vol. 29 No. 4, pp. 387-401.
Wu, Y. (2014), “Protecting personal data in e-government: a cross-country study”, Government
Information Quarterly, Vol. 31 No. 1, pp. 150-159.
Xia, P., Wang, J. and Zhou, W. (2007), IT Development and Personal Information Protection,
Economic Daily Press, Beijing.
Yao, Y. (2012), Personal Information Protection from the Constitutional Perspective, Law Press,
Beijing.
Zhang, H. (2006), Research Front of Personal Information Protection, Legal, Press, Beijing.
Zwick, D. and Dholakia, N. (2001), “Contrasting European and American approaches to privacy in
electronic markets: property right versus civil right”, Electronic Markets, Vol. 11 No. 2,
pp. 116-120.
Further reading
British Standard Institute (2009), BS10012:2009 Data Protection-Specification for a Personal
Information Management System, British Standard Institute, London.
Copeland, A.J. and Barreau, D. (2011), “Helping people to manage and share their digital
information: a role for public libraries”, Library Trends, Vol. 59 No. 4, pp. 637-649.
International Organization for Standardization (2009), ISO 704: 2009 Terminology Work –
Principles and Methods, Geneva.
About the authors
Xiaomi An is a Professor and Doctoral Supervisor at Renmin University of China.

Information in
networked
Chinese
services
1063

EL
33,6

1064

Wenlin Bai is a post doctor at Business School of Nankai University. Wenlin Bai is the
corresponding author and can be contacted at: baiwenlin@nankai.edu.cn.
Hepu Deng is a Chair Professor at Renmin University of China and RMIT University in
Australia.
Shuyang Sun is a PhD candidate at Renmin University of China.
Yu Dong is a PhD candidate at Renmin University of China.
Wenrui Zhong is a PhD candidate at Renmin University of China.
Jufang Hu is a Librarian of Renmin University of China.

For instructions on how to order reprints of this article, please visit our website:
www.emeraldgrouppublishing.com/licensing/reprints.htm
Or contact us for further details: permissions@emeraldinsight.com

