Wireless Pers Commun (2016) 89:715–728
DOI 10.1007/s11277-015-3094-7

Injecting Subject Policy into Access Control
for Strengthening the Protection of Personal Information
Hyung-Jin Mun1 • Sejong Oh2

Published online: 15 October 2015
 Springer Science+Business Media New York 2015

Abstract To protect stored personal information, many organizations and information
systems adopt the role-based access control model (RBAC) or the mandatory access
control model (MAC). Although individuals want to control their personal information, an
individual-needs-based access control system is difficult to adopt in the existing environment. Recent proposals have included privacy-enhancing technologies such as communication anonymizers, shared bogus online accounts, and access to personal data.
However, these systems cannot satisfy users’ privacy requirements. In this paper we
propose two confidential access control models that apply individually established policy
to existing RBAC and MAC technologies. In the SpRBAC model, a user’s right to access
would follow organizational policy and accessing personal information would be restricted
by subject policy. In the SpMAC model, users would have to satisfy the subject policy
established by the provider of information in addition to the requirements of normal MAC
policy. In the proposed models, it is possible to restrict access by authorized users
according to the subject policy, that is, the policy defined by the subject (or informant—the
one providing the personal information), and personal information can thus be protected.
Keywords

Information system  Security  Privacy  Subject policy  RBAC

1 Introduction
Because of advances in information technology, the protection of personal information
becomes a major issue. To improve and extend data communications, considerable skill is
needed in the areas of security and privacy [1–4]. Many Internet companies collect and
& Sejong Oh
sejongoh@dankook.ac.kr
1

Division of Information and Communication, Baekseok University, Cheonan 330-704, Korea

2

Department of Nanobiomedical Science, Dankook University, Cheonan 330-714, Korea

123

716

H.-J. Mun, S. Oh

manage the personal information of their customers so they can provide services more
efficiently. Although organizations have applied various strategies to protect personal
information and have outlined their privacy policies on their websites, there are no systematic mechanisms that can protect such information once it has been collected. Recent
data leaks affecting the retailer Shinsegae Internet Auction Company, Hanarotelecom, and
GS Caltex in South Korea led to disclosure of vast amounts of personal information on the
Internet. Online users are afraid to provide their information because of recent information
leaks by the credit card firms KB Kookmin, Lotte, and NH Nonghyup [5]. Once personal
information has been disclosed, the organization’s image is damaged and the individual
‘subject (provider)’ who was responsible for collecting such information becomes the
target of spam mail, phishing, voice fishing (vishing), and short message service phishing
(SMiShing). With the development of retrieval engines such as Google.com [6], a lot of
personal information and files that include individual sensitive information (e.g., credit
card number, social number, etc.) are collected and stored. Organizations collect information on individuals and store personal information in a database (DB), and the DB
administrator has the authority to access all such data and can back it up easily. For this
reason, attackers want to acquire the administrator’s authority, so a way to restrict the
access rights of administrator group is needed.
When the architecture of a system that deals with personal information is built, privacy
as well as security must be taken into consideration. All information systems need to be
designed for privacy [7], and Fig. 1 shows such an architecture [8]. In such a design, the
flow of information from collection to discard must be verified by a trusted authority.
Privacy legislation and regulations, which are based on the most recent Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development (OECD) Guidelines [9] and the European Union
General Data Protection Regulation [10], require control with regard to access, use, and

Personal Information Flow

Collection
Reason
Aim

Method

Collection
Management

Repository
Management

Information Usage
Management

Direct Collection

Information
Encrypted

Information
Category

Information Move

Privacy Policy

Subject Policy

Database Stored

Access Control

Information
Revoke

Web Membership
etc

Privacy by
Design

Technique

Fig. 1 Privacy architecture

123

Network
Security

Encryption

Authentication

Information
discard &
Discard
verification

Injecting Subject Policy into Access Control for Strengthening…

717

protection of personal information by subject. In this paper, the term ‘subject’ refers to the
informant who provides his or her personal information to a specific information system or
website. Organizations are required to adhere to the following primary principles of personal information protection [11]:
• Organizations should have a privacy policy and protection techniques for a subject’s
sensitive information.
• Organizations should provide the subject with control regarding access, use, and
leakage of own information.
• Organizations should protect classified information as sensitive information.
• Organizations should provide a supplementary device to protect a subject’s sensitive
information from other users, including the database administrator.
Thus, organizations must obtain the subject’s consent if they wish to use that person’s
personal information. Today, most public organizations or companies obtain such consent
only at the time this information is collected.
Recently, research on the protection of personal information focused on information
encryption techniques and access control. A new technique is needed that can control
access to information for which consent has been given when users wish to access a
subject’s sensitive information. In our previous research, we introduced the concept of
subject policy in the RBAC model and personal sensitive information management system
(SIMS) [12]. Here, we propose two confidential access control models: SpRBAC and
SpMAC. RBAC and MAC models have been widely adopted by many information systems
and most commercial database management system (DBMS) products. According to our
proposal, subject policy would be inserted in these basic RBAC and MAC models as a way
to strengthen the protection of personal information.

2 Related Works
Access control is defined as the mechanism by which users are permitted to have access to
resources (e.g., electronic information) according to their identities, authentication, and
associated privileged authorization. The concept of role-based access control (RBAC) was
originally proposed by Ferraiolo and Kuhn and was developed by Sandhu [13–16]. Permission is associated with roles, and users are assigned appropriate roles that confer
permission accordingly. The significant benefit of deploying RBAC is its flexibility in
meeting the changing needs of an organization. The RBAC model is based on role hierarchy, which matches the complicated authority structures of organizations, and is able to
satisfy various security requirements [14]. Models that have been proposed for decentralized RBAC administration include administrative RBAC (ARBAC), scoped administration of RBAC (SARBAC), and organization structure—based OS-RBAC [17–20]. The
RBAC model has also been combined with other security techniques such as cryptography
and authentication [21, 22].
Mandatory access control (MAC) is an access policy designed to support systems that
process especially sensitive data (e.g., government classified information or sensitive
corporate data) [23, 24]. The MAC model assigns sensitivity labels to all users (programs)
and all information objects (IOs) (e.g., files, directories, devices, windows, sockets) in the
system. A user (Ui) can access an information object (IOj) if Ui has the proper sensitivity
level against IOj; IOj should belong to the same category as Ui. The MAC model follows

123

718

H.-J. Mun, S. Oh

‘No Read Up (NRU)’ and ‘No Write Down (NWD)’ rules: a user’s read access is allowed
when (sensitivity level of user) C (sensitivity level of object), and write access is allowed
when (sensitivity level of user) B (sensitivity level of object).
Encryption techniques are used to provide secure communication via encryption
algorithms designed for e-mail, Internet banking, and on-line financial activities.
Encrypted information can be accessed only by the party that has the decryption key
[25]. Recently, personal information protection has been evaluated using the encryption
technique [11, 26–29]. HP Labs [26] provided a system that could protect personal
information using the encryption technique, but it had difficulty providing encryption
keys to information users. Sessay et al. [27] encrypted only the confidential information
appointed by a company and provided a protection model using the MAC technique.
P2MS [28] encrypted all personal information, including identity data, and emphasized
the personal privacy aspect.
RBAC and MAC models support centralized authority management. In most cases, the
subject of information (information provider) is a company or an organization. If the
subject is an individual, the current RBAC and MAC models cannot be applied to the
information systems because they are not sufficient to handle the subject’s various
requirements, and a leak of information would shift damage to the individual. Encryption is
a strong protection technique and can compensate for the weak points in access control
policy. In the next section, we present the SpRBAC model and the SIMS design, based on
the SpRBAC and SpMAC models.

3 New Access Control Models Using Subject Policy
3.1 SpRBAC:RBAC Model with Subject Policy
The SpRBAC model is an advanced model that supports the security policy of both the
organization and the individual. A user’s access rights follow organizational policy (OP),
and accessing personal information is restricted by subject policy (SP). In the SpRBAC
model, a subject has the following two rights:
(1)
(2)

To establish subject policy—that is, restrict users’ access to his/her sensitive
personal data;
To designate which sensitive personal data are encrypted

We assume that personal information is stored in a relational database. The granule of
access control for a subject is information attributes, which correspond to columns (or
fields) of tables in the database.
Figure 2 summarizes the SpRBAC model. It is an expansion model of RBAC96 with
subject and subject policy [29]. Subject (S) is personal information provider. A subject has
authority (A) only for his/her personal data.
Subject policy (SP) can be expressed by one of the following equations:
SP ¼ S  P  U or
SP ¼ S  P  R
where S is the subject, P is permission, U is the user, and R is role (see Example 1).

123

Injecting Subject Policy into Access Control for Strengthening…

719

Fig. 2 SpRBAC model

Example 1 Subject policy
SP1 = [Jane, customer ({salary, age}, read), user1001]
SP2 = [Tom, customer ({marriage_yn}, read), doctor]
In Case SP1, the subject ‘Jane’ prohibits the user ‘user1001’ from reading the {salary,
age} columns for ‘Jane’ in the customer table. In Case SP2, the subject ‘Tom’ prohibits
users whose role is ‘doctor’ from reading the {marriage_yn} columns for ‘Tom’ in the
customer table. In this example, {salary, age, marriage_yn} are the names of columns that
contain personal data. If SP1 and SP2 are established, ‘user1001’ or users whose role is
‘doctor’ cannot have access to the respective columns of ‘Jane’ and ‘Tom’ even if they are
authorized as users by the organization.
An authorization rule describes the condition for which given access is allowed.
Definition 1 Authorization rule for SpRBAC
A user request [Ui, Tablej{columnk}, operations, St] is allowed subject to:
(Tablej{columnk}, operations) [ Pt ^
(Pt, Ru) [ PA ^
(Ui, Ru) [ UA ^
: (St, Ui, Tablej{columnk}, operations) [ SP.
where
Ui:
Tablej{columnk}:
Operations:
St:
Pt:
Ru:

user i,
requested sensitive data (Column k in table j)
access operation s (one of read and write)
subject t who provides Tablej{columnk} data
permission t
role u

123

720

H.-J. Mun, S. Oh

Fig. 3 Structure of SIMS

PA:
UA:
SP:

permission-role assignment
user-role assignment
subject policy

The intuitive meaning of the authorization rule for SpRBAC is that if a user has proper
authority for information object IOi and the subject, who is the provider of IOi, does not
prohibit such access, then the user can access IOi.
The personal sensitive information management system (SIMS) [12] plays the role of an
access controller against users’ and subjects’ access requests. SIMS implements the SpRBAC
model and supports data encryption and decryption key management. Subjects establish their
security policies through SIMS, and users’ access requests are also processed by SIMS. A
modified component of SIMS for the SpRBAC model is presented in Fig. 3. The Access
Control Module manages the storage and modification of Subject‘s personal information in
Info. Database. When Users query some information in Info. Database, the Access Control
Module references Policy Repository and makes the decision to allow or deny. The Policy
Repository implements the SpRBAC model. Every activity of the Access Control Module is
recorded in the Audit Logs. Sensitive data are encrypted according to Subjects’ requests, and
the allowed user can access sensitive data through the Dec. Module. For encryption/decryption
work, SIMS uses the ‘key’ (Key Management Module), which is stored in the key database
(Key DB). Three important components of this model—policy repository, information database, and information retrieval process in SIMS—will now be described in more detail.

3.1.1 Policy Repository
This repository stores policy information for maintaining the SpRBAC model. It contains
two categories: organizational policy (OP) and subject policy (SP) (Fig. 4). OP consists of
security information for the general RBAC model and includes user, role, permission (user
authority for a given information object), user-role assignment (URA), permission-role
assignment (PRA), and role hierarchy (RH). SP consists of sensitive column lists, subject,
and restrictions for sensitive columns (see Example 1).

123

Injecting Subject Policy into Access Control for Strengthening…

721

Fig. 4 Structure of policy repository

3.1.2 Info. Database
This database stores collected personal information. Sensitive columns are encrypted, and
others are stored as plain text. For example, Alice’s sensitive columns are encrypted using
Alice’s keys according to Alice’s policy, and the key generated by the organization’s master
key is managed by SIMS. Alice provides her attribute information (M = {M1,M2, M3,…,Mn})
to SIMS, as shown in Fig. 5a. If the attributes M3, M5, and Mn are designated sensitive
information by subject policy, they are encrypted using Alice’s key, as shown in Fig. 5b.
Each subject should establish their personal policy in the Policy Repository. They can
assign restrictions to a role category or a personal user. Assigning restrictions to several
users is complicated and troublesome, and therefore SIMS allows the subject to assign
restrictions to roles. A role’s authority is inherited from parent roles, as shown in Fig. 6.

3.1.3 Information Retrieval Process in SIMS
A user’s access request to personal information can be managed by both organizational
policy and subject policy. For accessing sensitive information object SOi, users should own
the appropriate access right (role and permission) for SOi, and also there can be no
restriction by subject policy for SOi. When user ‘‘Bob’’ requests access to information of
subject ‘‘Alice,’’ the retrieval process is as follows:

Fig. 5 Process of storing personal information

123

722

H.-J. Mun, S. Oh

Fig. 6 Role hierarchy

1.
2.
3.
4.
5.
6.

Bob ? SIMS: {IDBob, req(IDAlice, IL, read)}
where req(IDAlice, IL, read): Requst of read to IL(information list) of Alice
SIMS: auth(IDBob) ^ chk(access rights of IDBob)
If (chk(access rights of IDBob) == false) terminate job;
SIMS / Info. Database (RL) where RL is a retrieval result
chk (SPAlice(req(IDAlice, IL, read))) where SPAlice() is a subject policy of Alice
Set null RL(Ci) if column Ci is restricted by SPAlice(req(IDAlice, IL, read))
Decrypt RL(Cj) if RL(Cj) is encrypted
Bob / SIMS: RL

In Step 1, Bob submits his ID and requests req(IDAlice, IL, read) to SIMS. req(IDAlice,
IL, read) consists of Alice’s subject ID, IL (information list), and read operation. The
information list is a set of columns in the target table.
In Step 2, SIMS authenticates Bob and checks his access rights as assigned by organizational policy, which consists of checking role and permission for IL.
If Bob has no access rights for IL, his request is rejected. An error message is returned,
and the job is terminated.
In Step 3, SIMS retrieves IL from Info. Database.
SIMS stores the retrieval result in the RL (result list).
In Step 4, SIMS checks restrictions on IL according to the subject policy of Alice.
If Alice restricts access to column Ci of IL for Bob, SIMS sets a ‘null’ value to Ci of RL.
In Step 5, If the non-restrict column Cj of RL is encrypted, SIMS decrypts Cj using the
attribute key generated by Alice’s master key in the Key DB and resets Cj by plane value.
In Step 6, SIMS returns RL to Bob.

3.2 SpMAC: MAC Model with Subject Policy
The SpMAC model follows the security principle of the normal MAC model. Plus it has
one more requirement to user Ui who should satisfy subject policy established by provider
of information object IOj. Subject policy (SP) in SpMAC can be expressed by:
SP ¼ S  P  U or
SP ¼ S  P  URC
where S is the subject, P is permission, U is user, and URC is the user group whose
sensitivity level is C.

123

Injecting Subject Policy into Access Control for Strengthening…

723

Fig. 7 MAC and SpMAC model

Figure 7 compares the MAC and SpMAC models. The SpMAC model adopted principles of MAC such as NRU, NWD, and access prohibition to other categories. In addition
to these principles, SpMAC supports the restriction of authorized access through subject
policy (SP) (see Example 2).
Example 2 gives a sample usage of SP in SpMAC
Example 2 Subject policy in SpMAC
SP3 = [Jane, customer({salary, age}, read), user01]
SP4 = [Tom, customer({marriage_yn}, read), confidential]
In the case of SP3, subject ‘Jane’ prohibits user ‘user01’ from trying to read the {salary,
age} columns for ‘Jane’ in the customer table. In the case of SP4, subject ‘Tom’ prohibits
users with the ‘confidential’ level of access from reading the {marriage_yn} column for
‘Tom’ in the customer table.
Definition 2 is the authorization rule for SpMAC model.
Definition 2 Authorization rule for SpMAC.
A user request [Ui(C,S), Tablej{columnk}, operations, St] is allowed subject to:
Case 1
operations = read
CA(Tablej{columnk}) = C ^
SL(Tablej{columnk}) B S ^
: (St, Ui, Tablej{columnk}, read) [ SP.
Case 2
operations = write
CA(Tablej{columnk}) = C ^
SL(Tablej{columnk}) C S ^
: (St, Ui, Tablej{columnk}, write) [ SP.

123

724

H.-J. Mun, S. Oh

where
Ui(C,S):
Tablej{columnk}:
operations:
St:
CA(x):
SL(x):
SP:

user i who’s category is C and sensitivity level is S
requested sensitive data (Column k in table j)
access operation (one of read and write)
Subject t who provides Tablej{columnk} data
Category of information object x
sensitive level of object x
Subject policy

4 Discussion
The main drawback of the information system that is currently used is that it cannot
support individuals’ protection requests for their own sensitive data. If a person submits
their personal information to an organization, the organization has complete authority to
determine the security policy. Authorized users can therefore access all personal information, and individuals cannot participate in this access control process. The proposed
SpRBAC and SpMAC models were developed to satisfy the privacy requirements of
individuals and related laws, and each has unique characteristics and many advantages.

4.1 Granule of Protection
The SpRBAC model retains the convenience and efficiency of the RBAC model while at
the same time supporting individual-based security policies. SpRBAC supports finergrained data protection as compared with basic RBAC models. Figure 8 compares the
granule of protection between the RBAC and the SpRBAC models, in which The dark-gray
squares represent the protected areas and the light-gray squares represent the allowed areas.
Most commercial DBMS products adopt the RBAC model. The database administrator or
security manager assigns access authority to users using GRANT instruction. For example,
the security manager assigns SELECT, UPDATE authority for the gender and age columns
of the userInfo table to user PGMR01. This kind of assignment relies on simple protection
patterns, as shown in Fig. 8a. In contrast, the SpRBAC model supports flexible protection
patterns, as shown in Fig. 8b, because subject policy allows individual protection for data
columns that contain sensitive personal information. The SpMAC model also offers the
same advantages as the SpRBAC model.

4.2 Restriction Based Protection
In the SpRBAC model, individuals (subjects) can establish their own security policy. Does
it mean that they have all managing authority for their personal information? Is it possible
for them to assign access rights to any users? If it is allowed, conflict may exist between
organizational policy and subject policy. For example, if organizational policy does not
allow user DOC001 to access the age and job information of subject S001, whereas S001
does allow DOC001 access to age and job information, then a conflict can arise. If the
subject’s policy took place prior to organizational policy, it may lead to additional dangerous disclosure of sensitive information. Therefore, in the SpRBAC model, the subject
does not have the authority to assign rights to any users. Instead, subjects can ‘restrict’

123

Injecting Subject Policy into Access Control for Strengthening…

725

Fig. 8 Granule of protection. Dark-gray areas indicate protected access and light-gray areas indicate
allowed access

Fig. 9 Relationship between
organizational policy and subject
policy

authorized users from having access to sensitive data. Therefore, organizational policy and
subject policy are not equal; subject policy supplements a lack of organizational policy
(Fig. 9). This principle is equally applied to the SpMAC model.

4.3 Retrieved Information in SpRBAC/SpMAC Model
Let’s suppose user U1 requests sensitive information such as income, job_position, and
birthday of subject S1, and S1 restricts that U1 from reading income information. As we can
see, U1 has access rights only for job_position and birthday. The access controller (AC)
should return the retrieved information to U1, with three possible outcomes:
(1)

AC rejects all U1’s requests because U1 tried to access income, which was restricted.

123

726

(2)
(3)

H.-J. Mun, S. Oh

AC returns only the unrestricted data for job_position and birthday.
AC returns data for income, job_position, and birthday data but income is null.

The first case is too strict to apply in real information systems. U1 has legitimate access
rights to job_position and birthday data, but access is restricted. The second case would
seem to offer acceptable return data, but if U1 is a program, the program may cause
problems because it expects three values to be returned; if only two values are returned,
this may lead to a parameter error. The third case is suitable because AC protects sensitive
data income by returning a null value, which does not cause problems for the information
system. The ‘nullify strategy’ for sensitive data has one more advantage. In cases (1) and
(2), user U1 may realize that the request contains some sensitive data, and the existence of
sensitive data implies disclosure. In case (3), user U1 may think that subject S1 did not
report income data. Therefore, case (3) is a safe form of security management.

5 Conclusions
The information age has led us to think carefully about the issues of security and privacy.
A lot of organizations protect personal information using encryption techniques and access
control, but the existing system does not satisfy the various demands of individuals. Access
control is managed by an organization, so individuals cannot protect their information from
unwanted access by authorized users. In this paper, we proposed two models—the
SpRBAC and SpMAC models—that introduce subject policy into current access control
systems and thus provide individuals with the opportunity to participate in the process of
access control of their sensitive data. SIMS supports the encryption of sensitive information according to subject policy, so it protects personal information.
The proposed models can be easily implemented in the current legacy systems and are
expected to be applied in the fields of health care, banking, government, academia, and
law. One problem with the SpRBAC and SpMAC models is that users cannot force
companies to adopt them. Nevertheless, companies will increase their credibility if they
agree to adopt these models. Recently, some privacy-enhancing technologies have been
proposed, and new technologies will be introduced, such as limited disclosure technology,
wallets of multiple virtual identities, anonymous credentials, and data transaction logs. If
the SpRBAC and SpMAC models are combined with these privacy-enhancing technologies, users will be better able to protect their private information with greater safety.
Acknowledgments The present research was conducted by the research fund of Dankook University in
2014.

References
1. Garitano, I., Fayyad, S., & Josef, N. (2015). Multi-metrics approach for security, privacy and
dependability in embedded systems. Wireless Personal Communications, 81(4), 1359–1376.
2. Zhang, R., Giunchiglia, F., Crispo, B., & Song, L. (2010). Relation-based access control: An access
control model for context-aware computing environment. Wireless Personal Communications, 55(1),
5–17.
3. Memon, I., Hussain, I., Akhtar, R., & Chen, G. (2015). Enhanced privacy and authentication: An
efficient and secure anonymous communication for location based service using asymmetric cryptography scheme. Wireless Personal Communications, 84(2), 1487–1508.

123

Injecting Subject Policy into Access Control for Strengthening…

727

4. Zeadally, S., Pathan, A., Alcaraz, C., & Badra, M. (2013). Towards privacy protection in smart grid.
Wireless Personal Communications, 73(1), 23–50.
5. BBC News. (2014). S Korea credit card firms punished over data theft. BBC News Business. http://
www.bbc.co.uk/news/business-26222283. Accessed August 15, 2015.
6. Johnny, L. (2004). Google hacking for penetration testers (pp. 127–129). Rockland: Syngress Publishing Inc.
7. Cavoukian, A. (2009). Privacy by design…take the challenge. Information and privacy commissioner of
Ontario (Canada). http://www.ipc.on.ca/images/Resources/PrivacybyDesignBook.pdf. Accessed
August 15, 2015.
8. Mun, H. (2010). A study on privacy policy using role based access control of academic affairs information system. Journal of Korean Language Information Science, 12(2), 41–46.
9. OECD. (2013). Guidelines on the protection of privacy and transborder flows of personal data. OECD,
http://www.oecd.org/internet/ieconomy/oecdguidelinesonthe protectionofprivacyandtransborderflowsofpersonaldata.htm. Accessed August 15, 2015.
10. WIKIPEDIA. (2015). General data protection regulation. https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/General_Data_
Protection_Regulation. Accessed August 15, 2015.
11. Mun, H., Um, N., Sun, N., Li, Y., & Lee, S. (2007). Subject-wise policy based access control mechanism for protection of personal information. In International conference on convergence information
tech (Iccit2007), Gyeongju, Korea, November 21–23, pp. 2242–2247.
12. Mun, H., & Suh, J. (2008). Sensitive personal information model for RBAC system. Journal of computer information, 13(5), 103–110.
13. Ferraiolo, D.F., & Kuhn, D.R. (1992). Role-based access controls. In Proceedings of 15th NIST-NCSC
national computer security conference, Baltimore, USA, October 13–16, pp. 554–563.
14. Sandhu, R. S., Coyne, E. J., Feinstein, H. L., & Youman, C. E. (1996). Role-based access control
models. IEEE Computer, 29(2), 38–47.
15. Ferraiolo, D. F., Barkley, J. F., & Kuhn, D. R. (1999). A role based access control model and reference
implementation within a corporate intranet. ACM Transactions on Information and System Security
(TISSEC), 2(1), 34–64.
16. Park, J. S., Sandhu, R., & Ahn, G. J. (2001). Role-based access control on the web. ACM Transactions
on Information and System Security (TISSEC), 4(1), 37–71.
17. Sandhu, R., Bhamidipati, V., & Munawer, Q. (1999). The ARBAC97 model for role-based administration of roles. ACM Transactions Information and System Security (TISSEC), 2(1), 105–135.
18. Sandhu, R., & Munawer, Q. (1999). The ARBAC99 Model for Administrative Roles. In IEEE 15th
annual computer security applications conference, Phoenix, AZ, pp. 229–238.
19. Crampton, J., & Loizou, G. (2003). Administrative scope: A foundation for role-based administrative
models. ACM Transactions on Information and System Security (TISSEC), 6(2), 201–231.
20. Oh, S., Byun, C., & Park, S. (2006). An organizational structure-based administration model for
decentralized access control. Journal of information science and engineering, 22, 1465–1483.
21. Zhu, Y., Ahn, G.J, Hu, H., & Wang, H. (2010). Cryptographic Role-based Security mechanisms based
on role-key hierarchy. In Proceedings of the 5th ACM symposium on information, computer and
communication. Security (ASIACCS ‘10), April 1–12.
22. Wang, J., Yu, J., Li, D., & Jia, Z. (2006). Combining authentication with role-based access control
based on IBS. In IEEE international conference on computational intelligence and security, 2,
pp. 1475–1480.
23. Russell, D., & Gangemi, G. T. (1991). Computer security basics (1st ed.). Sebastopol: O’Reilly &
Associates Inc.
24. Pfleeger, C. P., & Pfleeger, S. L. (1997). Security in computing (2nd ed., pp. 361–371). Upper Saddle
River, NJ: Prentice-Hall.
25. Stallings, W. (2003). Cryptography and network security. Upper Saddle River: Prentice Hall Inc.
26. Mont, M.C., & Pearson, S. (2005). An adaptive privacy management system for data repositories, 2th
trust, privacy, and security in digital business (TrustBus2005), Copenhagen, Denmark, LNCS 3592,
August 22–26, pp. 236–245.
27. Sessay, S., Yang, Z., Chen, J., & Xu, D. (2005). A secure database encryption scheme.In 2th IEEE
consumer communications and networking conference (CCNC2005), Las, Nevada, January 3–6,
pp. 49–53.
28. Mun, H., Lee, K., & Lee, S. (2006). Person-Wise Privacy Level Access Control for Personal Information Directory Services. In international conference in embedded and ubiquitous computing
(EUC2006), Seoul, Korea. Berlin, Heidelberg: Springer (LNCS 4096), August 1–4, pp. 89–98.
29. Mun, H. (2008). A Role based personal sensitive information protection with subject policy, doctoral
dissertation. Cheongju-si: Chungbuk University.

123

728

H.-J. Mun, S. Oh

Hyung-Jin Mun received his BS, and Master degree in Mathematics
from Chungnam National University, Rep. of Korea in 1996 and 2002.
He received Ph.D. degrees in Computer Science from Chungbuk
National University in 2008. He was an associate professor in Yanbian
University Science & Technology in China. He is currently lecture in
Baekseok University in Korea. His research interests include personal
privacy, access control, and network security.

Sejong Oh received a Doctor, Master, and Bachelor degree in Computer Science from Sogang University, Korea, in 2001, 1991, and
1989. From 2001 to 2003, he was a postdoctoral fellow in the laboratory for Information Security Technology at George Mason
University, USA. Since 2003 he joined the Department of Computer
Science at Dankook University, Korea, and is currently associate
professor in WCU Research Center of NanoBioMedical Science. His
main research interests are bioinformatics, information system, and
information system security.

123

