The current issue and full text archive of this journal is available on Emerald Insight at:
www.emeraldinsight.com/2056-4961.htm

ICS
25,5

Information security management
and the human aspect in
organizations
Harrison Stewart

494
Received 18 July 2016
Revised 13 December 2016
19 March 2017
8 June 2017
Accepted 9 June 2017

Faculty of Information Technology, University of Koblenz-Landau, Koblenz,
Germany, and Univeril Technology Industry, Hamburg, Germany, and

Jan Jürjens
Institute for Software Technology, University of Koblenz-Landau, Koblenz,
Germany and Fraunhofer Institute for Software and Systems Engineering
Technology ISST, Germany

Abstract
Purpose – The aim of this study is to encourage management boards to recognize that employees play a
major role in the management of information security. Thus, these issues need to be addressed efﬁciently,
especially in organizations in which data are a valuable asset.
Design/methodology/approach – Before developing the instrument for the survey, ﬁrst, effective
measurement built upon existing literature review was identiﬁed and developed and the survey
questionnaires were set according to past studies and the ﬁndings based on qualitative analyses. Data were
collected by using cross-sectional questionnaire and a Likert scale, whereby each question was related to an
item as in the work of Witherspoon et al. (2013). Data analysis was done using the SPSS.3B.
Findings – Based on the results from three surveys and ﬁndings, a principle of information security
compliance practices was proposed based on the authors’ proposed nine-ﬁve-circle (NFC) principle that
enhances information security management by identifying human conduct and IT security-related issues
regarding the aspect of information security management. Furthermore, the authors’ principle has enabled
closing the gap between technology and humans in this study by proving that the factors in the present
study’s ﬁnding are interrelated and work together, rather than on their own.

Research limitations/implications – The main objective of this study was to address the lack of
research evidence on what mobilizes and inﬂuences information security management development and
implementation. This objective has been fulﬁlled by surveying, collecting and analyzing data and by giving
an account of the attributes that hinder information security management. Accordingly, a major practical
contribution of the present research is the empirical data it provides that enable obtaining a bigger picture and
precise information about the real issues that cause information security management shortcomings.

Practical implications – In this sense, despite the fact that this study has limitations concerning the
development of a diagnostic tool, it is obviously the main procedure for the measurements of a framework to
assess information security compliance policies in the organizations surveyed.

Social implications – The present study’s discoveries recommend in actuality that using ﬂexible tools
that can be scoped to meet individual organizational needs have positive effects on the implementation of
information security management policies within an organization. Accordingly, the research proposes that
organizations should forsake the oversimpliﬁed generalized guidelines that neglect the veriﬁcation of the
difference in information security requirements in various organizations. Instead, they should focus on the
issue of how to sustain and enhance their organization’s compliance through a dynamic compliance process
that
. involves awareness of the compliance regulation, controlling integration and closing gaps
Information & Computer Security
Vol. 25 No. 5, 2017
pp. 494-534
© Emerald Publishing Limited
2056-4961
DOI 10.1108/ICS-07-2016-0054

Originality/value – The rapid growth of information technology (IT) has created numerous business
opportunities. At the same time, this growth has increased information security risk. IT security risk is an
important issue in industrial sectors, and in organizations that are innovating owing to globalization or
changes in organizational culture. Previously, technology-associated risk assessments focused on various

technology factors, but as of the early twenty-ﬁrst century, the most important issue identiﬁed in technology
risk studies is the human factor.

Keywords Information security, Culture and technology, Employee behaviour in technology, IT
human aspects, Security and leadership

Information
security
management

Paper type Research paper

1. Introduction
The rapid growth of information technology (IT) has increased security risks in both
industrial and ﬁnancial sectors. Currently, human activity is considered the most critical
factor in the management of information security. Information security risks related to
human activity are observed in employees from large- and medium-sized businesses where
employees violate company security policies or personally engage in security theft (Vance
et al., 2013). These issues occur because of various factors such as poor information security
awareness among employees, poor employee information security training and poorly
managed teams. These factors are major threats to a company’s information security.
Compliance to a company security policy and frequent information security training of
employees can positively impact the human aspects of security.
To eliminate the lack of security awareness and deﬁciencies among employees so as to
enhance their approaches to information security management, it is essential to take a
deeper look into these factors.
In some organizations, the human resource department plays a major role in IT security
by checking, controlling and redirecting employee conduct toward successful information
security management. Simply put, human resource departments are managed by an
organization’s management board, and the management board is responsible for planning,
acquisition, information security training, as well as directing human activities, in the
business domain. This indicates that the management board is responsible for controlling
and directing these activities to enhance the awareness of information security among
employees. Although senior management alone cannot guarantee successful risk
management, it is essential for senior management individuals to execute and control
information security activities (Boss et al., 2009; McFadzean et al., 2006).
Organizational security policies are sets of rules and regulations that govern an
organization’s network, and they are intended to prevent fraud and embezzlement
(Compston, 2009). These policies ban criminal activities – for example, an employee hacking
into a computer system or network, employees visiting inappropriate websites or the
stealing of company software by/or enabled by employees. Puhakainen and Siponen (2010)
argue that security awareness training has a positive impact on employee conduct, and it
allows conduct to conform to company security policy.
Compliance is deﬁned as the conforming to a rule or a policy. We hypothesize that
policies are not effective in an organization that lacks policy compliance (i.e. a policy is not
effective in the absence of compliance). There are two components of compliance that should
be highlighted:
(1) Without compliant employees, security policies are not guaranteed.
(2) Compliance enhances the efﬁcacy of information system security controls (Guo,
2013; Herath and Rao, 2009b).
Harrison and White (2010) added that, compliance will only occur and be effective if
enforced correctly by senior managers. However, according to previous studies, there are
numerous managers who lack commitment to information security management, and this

495

ICS
25,5

496

calls for education and persuasion via external or internal regulators (Ahmad et al., 2012;
Chang and Ho, 2006; Hsu, 2009; Hu et al., 2007; Smith et al., 2010). Compliance analysis is the
process of comparing the applied controls with the referenced standards. Furthermore,
compliance analysis is a tool used for inspecting the conformity level of the business and for
ﬁnding problems that arise after the generated information security policies have been
implemented.
In any case, regardless of the possibility that the previously mentioned tools or
techniques are used, they come short and do not cover the entire picture of information
security management. Therefore, this study addresses the following research questions:
RQ1. Do the organizations’ management boards lack the skills to plan, train and direct
human activities toward security awareness?
RQ2. What are the beliefs of employees regarding the outcomes of information security
violations and how such violations affect information security management?
RQ3. What kind of compliance guidance for information security do organizations need
to adopt, and on what essential points should this guidance focus?
RQ4. Is there any interrelation between technology and human factors that work
together for the successful deployment and implementation of information
security management in an organization?
We have answered the above hypothesis in their respective sections. In Section 4, our
ﬁndings and analysis will answer the RQ1 and RQ2 and will be further illustrated in
Table IV. RQ3 will be answered in Section 6, where we will propose our nine-ﬁve-circle
(NFC) principle that can be used to enhance the development and implementation of
information security management policies in an organization. Section 6.2.3 will answer our
last hypothesis, whereby we conﬁrm that technology and human factors are interrelated and
work together for the successful deployment and implementation of information security
management in an organization.
Information security policies have a major impact on the management of security and the
success of a business. According to Trcek et al. (2007), humans are the critical factor of
information security; however, there is always complexity in the interactions between
humans and technical elements. Trcek et al. (2007) argued that humans are the blueprint of
information security, while Loster (2005) added that employee roles should be considered in
the planning and implementation phases of information security policies and management.
Therefore, in this study, we hypothesize that humans play a major role in security
management, and this role should not be ignored.
1.1 The gap
The massive advancement in the IT sector has increased the technological needs of
organizations. With widespread use and access to World Wide Web services, security has
become the most critical aspect for many organizations. Many researchers have proposed
measures to solve these issues; however, the quantiﬁcation of security measures is still
considered a challenge by many studies. According to Yeniman et al. (2011), employee
ignorance increases data breaches and data security vulnerabilities. In an empirical study
conducted by Jaeger (2013) regarding the reasons behind data breaches, 38 per cent of data
breaches are due to loss of paper ﬁles; 27 per cent are due to human carelessness (e.g. losing
data memory devices); and 11 per cent of data breaches are due to hacking. These data
suggest that employees have a major inﬂuence on information security risk and data

breaches. Rubenstein and Francis (2008) reported on the lack of compliance toward
information security, as well as violations of access policies. Vance et al. (2013) argued that
lack of information security training and violations of policy occur due to unskilled or poor
managers.
1.2 Aim
The aim of this study is to encourage management boards to recognize that employees play
a major role in the management of information security. Thus, these issues need to be
addressed efﬁciently, especially in organizations in which data are a valuable asset.
Engaging workplace employees in security awareness is a social event that also strengthens
the security of a company’s information. A strong company foundation in security
awareness among employees ensures that employees are informed of company security
policies. Employees trained in security awareness also improve innovation and increase
work productivity. Therefore, this current study also aims to highlight the importance of
formal and informal security awareness of employees to enhance employee productivity.
In recent decades, many organizations have focused on technology-based solutions – e.g.
intrusion detection mechanisms to address information security (PricewaterhouseCoopers,
2008). However, Safa et al. (2015) argued that these approaches do not guarantee a secure
business in the context of information security management. Furthermore, technologybased approaches often increase administrative and supportive costs and seldom dispose of
the risk (Cavusoglu et al., 2009; Dhillon and Backhouse 2001; Siponen 2005). The
implementation of such technologies can be tedious for employees when exploring
information systems due to the informational gaps that come with software and hardware.
Pahnila et al. (2007) also argued that, despite such huge investments, both software and
hardware often do not decrease the security problems faced by these organizations.
Numerous studies have also investigated how employees are targeted by hackers through
different channels (e.g. social media); therefore, investing in multiple technology defense
layouts has little impact on information security (Abawajy 2014; Arce, 2003; Jansson and
von Solms, 2013, Schultz et al., 2001; Zhang et al., 2009).
1.3 Paper structure
We began this paper with a brief introduction concerning the issues, the reasoning and the
need for this study, including the aims and objectives of the research.
In Section 2, a literature review will be presented to analyze existing situations. This
analysis will be based on the present study’s ﬁndings, as well as analyses reported by other
researchers. Gaps in current knowledge will be indicated, such as the lack of a single theory
for poor security awareness.
In Section 3, a conceptual framework will be developed to evaluate a security situation.
Here, a questionnaire pertaining to the situation, with multiple choice answers, will be
prepared and provided to 600 individuals of varying ages, sex, ﬁeld of employment,
positions, designations, and income groups. The results of the survey will be quantiﬁed, and
presented graphically. These data will help to identify major and minor causal factors
between human aspects and information security risk.
Section 4 explores the methodology in which the proposed framework will be evaluated
and veriﬁed via quantitative analysis. The reliability and validity of the ﬁndings will be
further tested using statistical software tools (e.g. SPSS and SEM). These techniques will
provide an outcome to fulﬁll the research aims. We hypothesize that lack of information
security management training and lack of situational awareness among employees will be
the top reasons for poor information security management.

Information
security
management

497

ICS
25,5

498

In Section 5, we present inferential limitations encountered during this study.
Section 6 will be based on the results from the methodology section. Herein, we will
present a new compliance guideline based on the NFC framework to enhance the
deployment and implementation of information security policy compliance.
In Section 7, we present the implications of this research, based on practice and future
research possibilities.
Section 8 concludes with important points that organizations should consider when
choosing IT security standards. We point out that the important points and suggestions
generated herein may only work with speciﬁc types of organizations.
2. Literature review
There have been numerous studies on information security management – for example, the
information security viability model proposed by Kankan-Halli et al. (2003), and the
planning of security and risk management approach proposed by Soo Hoo (2000).
Cavusoglu et al. (2004a, 2004b) studied investment in information security and assessment.
While these studies have improved our comprehension of information security from
different viewpoints, their outcomes have not been able to solve all the security issues that
face organizations.
During the past decades, a signiﬁcant amount of research has been done on numerous
aspects of information security management – for example, external abuse (Simmonds et al.,
2004; Vivo et al., 1998), internal assaults (Guo and Yuan, 2012; Harrington, 1996; Straub and
Nance, 1990), policies acceptance strategies (Siau et al., 2002; Son, 2011) and computer crimes
(Cronan et al., 2006). These studies indicate a great increase in the ﬁeld of information
security management research between 2000 and 2007 (Chen et al., 2010); however, much of
this research focuses on internet abuse (Lim and Teo, 2005), individual behavior, compliance
and impact of deterrence on employee conduct (Hovav and D’Arcy, 2012). Research at the
organization level has not received a lot of attention. Lee and Kozar (2008) proposed the
adoption of security technology and practices, while Siponen and Vartiainen (2004)
proposed traditional standard methods due to the complexity of security standards
adoption. According to Kotulic and Clark (2004), the relative lack of ﬁrm-level research may
mirror the reluctance of ﬁrms to uncover information with respect to their security strategies
and breaches; subsequently, organizations choose to evade collaboration in security
practices. Richardson (2011) demonstrated a drop in security personnel response to
security measure surveys as compared to earlier studies. Numerous meta-analyses in data
security have been performed that recommend a holistic approach to dealing with current
information security management issues. These studies propose several ways to deal with
information security to obtain a bigger picture of information security. A few distinct
frameworks have been proposed to address information security. These frameworks
incorporate simulation models, formal models, dynamic models and economic models for
security (Dhillon and Backhouse, 2001; Siponen, 2005; Sunyaev et al., 2009).
2.1 Human role in information security
Other studies have also demonstrated that many organizations neglect the centrality of
human behavior in information security management, and that this has caused failures in
information security. Webb et al. (2014) proposed a situation-aware information security risk
management (SA-ISRM) model to supplement the ISRM procedure; however, their model
was only focused on the deﬁciencies of ISRM. Here, the researchers neglected security policy
compliance based on individual employees. Li et al. (2010) argued how recent studies on
information security management have neglected the perceived beneﬁt of degenerate

behavior, individual norms and organizational settings. Their research model used an online
survey that was sent to organization employees. However, their work was only based on
internet use policy (IUP) compliance. Thus, they focused on employees in an organization
with an internet use policy and realized the risks posed by employees in the context of
security management in an organization. They also recommended the signiﬁcance of
considering compliance decisions as driven by a cost–beneﬁt analysis, limited by individual
standards and organizational setting factors. Therefore, their work did not cover all the
elements of human behavior and social structure in the organization, such as human ability,
culture, information security management, top personnel, technology and how all these
factors interrelate and work together. Here, we emphasize that both Li et al. (2010) and Webb
et al. (2014) indicate the limitations of a number of theory-based empirical studies on
employee security policy compliance that we address in this study.
Da Veiga and Martins (2016) conducted a questionnaire survey where they studied the
interrelationship between human, technology and strategy controls. Their data were derived
from information security culture assessment (ISCA), based on a case study of an
international ﬁnancial institution at four intervals over a period of eight years, across 12
countries. Their study was centered on the effects of security-awareness training, and they
recommended further research to be conducted on employees who comply to information
security policy and others who do not, as well as extending the research across national and
cultural boundaries.
Herath and Rao (2009a) argued the need for organizations to deploy different approaches
to enhance data security. Iﬁnedo (2012) added that many organizations are heavily investing
in technology-based measures, but these often do not yield positive results due to the lack of
attention allotted to employee behavior. Crossler et al. (2013) concluded that a combination
of technology-based solutions and employee security behavior plays a major role in
information security management, and this calls for a strategic approach to model a solution
to unify technology, human, cultural and organizational factors.
2.2 Technology role in information security
Numerous studies have investigated cyber-attack prevention. According to Li et al. (2009),
limited countermeasures are available to prevent cyber-attacks. Mirkovic and Reiher (2005)
proposed the source-end defense points. Chen and Hwang (2006) also proposed the core-end
defense techniques, while Wang et al. (2007) proposed the casualty end protection, and Seo
et al. (2013) proposed the versatile probabilistic ﬁlter planning. All the above
countermeasures have been developed to prevent ﬂood attacks, but none were aimed at
employees. Other traditional techniques such as cryptography and ﬁrewalls have also been
proposed as distinct options to avoid intruders and maintain data conﬁdentiality, integrity
and authentication (CIA) (Wright et al., 2004).
According to Singh et al. (2013), technology is not capable of providing a dependable
answer for hierarchical information security needs and challenges. Werlinger et al. (2009)
recommended that, to overcome the constantly challenging issues of information security
management, it is important that in combination with a technical approach, employee and
organizational factors should also be addressed. In their recommendation, the technical
approaches are initiating, planning, acquisition of new innovations, budgetary designations
and purchasing innovative hardware and software. Human factors include skilled staff
recruitment, hiring, information security management training and employee motivation.
Organizational factors include staff compliance with organization rules and regulations,
frequent information security management training, rigid managerial direction and
presence of compliance departments. Hence, we hypothesis in this study that technology

Information
security
management

499

ICS
25,5

500

and human factors are interrelated and need to be addressed efﬁciently for the successful
deployment of information security management (Werlinger et al., 2009; Abawajy, 2014;
Arachchilage and Love, 2014; Kritzinger and von Solms, 2010).
2.3 The ﬁnancial impact on information security
According to Safa and Ismail (2013), information security breaches cause ﬁnancial costs for
organizations and affect organization reputation. In addition to adopting technology-based
solutions, appropriate data security conduct can mitigate the risk of information security
breaches in an organization. Abawajy (2014) determined the important role of security
compliance awareness among employees, such as conduct and behavior, during a study on
security risk mitigation. This research was subsequently supported by ﬁndings generated
by Arachchilage and Love (2014). However, both researchers neglected human ability,
culture, information security management, technology and how all these variables
interrelate and need to be addressed efﬁciently in an organization. Kritzinger and von Solms
(2010) held a workshop where they divided users into home and organizational
environments to conﬁrm the important role that both groups play in security awareness.
They further conﬁrmed the efﬁcacy of the methods used and the strong impact of policy
enforcement. However, Kritzinger and von Solms (2010) based their study on private and
public behavior, but neglected culture, familiarity, management, technology and how all
these factors interrelate and work together. Safa et al. (2015) found that knowledge of
information security (information security) is linked to better understanding, familiarity and
capacity to manage and overcome crises.
2.4 Misuse of information security knowledge sharing
The misuse of information security resources has been recognized in numerous studies as a
signiﬁcant problem, often identiﬁed during information security mitigations. This supports
the hypothesis found in other studies that assessed employee behavior, that workers often
take part in inappropriate behaviors increase security risks. These ﬁndings caused many
organizations to concentrate on placing impediments and preventative systems such as
sanctions on employees for the misuse of computers. Straub and Nance (1990) explored how
to detect computer abuse and how to sanction employees. They advised organizations to
sanction employees severely to prevent other employees from conducting the same or
similar activities. Willison (2006) studied the impacts of employee misbehavior and
subsequent risks for information security by using rational decision and crime preventive
methodologies to explore the relationship between the culprit and the context. According to
Willison, organizations need to concentrate on the inappropriate behavior of employees in
various levels and enforce preventive measures to decrease employee behaviors that
increase information security risks.
A study by Lee and Lee (2002) focused on the deterrence hypothesis along with social
speculations to clarify the impact of information security management, information security
programs and organizational factors. Lee and Lee (2002) analyzed both insider and outsider
information security abuse by evaluating organizational factors and the causes of the
security abuse. They determined that the improvement of social networks via organizational
factors could eliminate the misuse of information systems in an organization. However, Lee
and Lee based their work on how social relationships and traditional counter-measures
impact the decision process employees that misuse computers by using the general
deterrence theory (GDT) for guidelines (e.g. as in the work of Straub and Nance, 1990). The
GDT is a basis for security awareness, security training and education and minimizes cost

(Beccaria, 1963); however, it comes with some limitations and needs to be enhanced and
revised. GDT also neglects the interrelationship between technology and humans.
2.5 Information security management standards
Siponen and Vartiainen (2004) analyzed BS7799, PCI BS, ISO/IEC17799: 2000, GASPP/
GAISP and the SSE-CMM to determine and compare how international information
security management guidelines play a key role in managing and conﬁrming the
organizational information security. They realized that those listed guidelines were too
generalized and neglected the veriﬁcation of the difference in information security
requirements in various organizations. Furthermore, these guidelines were not meant
for international information security standards because of their general practices in
nature. Owing to these shortcomings, they recommended that information security
management guidelines should be seen as “a library of material for information
security management for specialists” (Siponen and Vartiainen, 2004). An empirical
study was conducted by Kotulic and Clark (2004) in the sector of security risk
management (SRM) where they proposed a conceptual model to enhance SRM on
organizational level. However, their model was not able to detect and specify
information systems security. According to Baskerville (1993), computer misuse (i.e.
use for purposes other than that intended by the company, such as recreational
activities) is the main cause of information security risk, and they recommended that
information security experts and IT managers should implement systems that will
detect information security abuse and specify information systems security.
Despite the fact that the vast majority of the data security literature focuses on sanctions
and technology-based solutions, little data are available on the roles management boards,
employee information security training and collaboration play in information security
management. The current study will not only evaluate technology and the responses of
individual employees but will also target individual managers because they are responsible
for the proper implementation of security compliance. Our study further analyzes
organizational culture, collaboration, employee familiarity with security management,
managing director skills, governance, leadership, records management, information access,
communication, compliance, technology and how all these factors interrelate and work
together. The expectation is that security compliance needs to be initiated from the top level
down to the lowest level in every organization.
In our work, the factors in our research are both dependent and independent factors.
These factors are interrelated and the complex design reﬂects that a number of independent
factors may work together to determine the level of the dependent factor. For example, we
investigate the cause of the issues that an organization faces during policy compliance
deployment (the dependent variable). Here we hypothesize that our SPSS ﬁndings such as
lack of security training-awareness, lack of management directives, absence of compliance
policy, lack of security interest and failure of hardware (ﬁve independent factors) may work
separately or in conjunction with each other in determining the condition of the dependent
factors. The identiﬁcation of independent and dependent factor relies on the particular
research question and conceptual underpinning of our work. Here, the two labels
“dependent” and “independent” can be used in a speciﬁc design differently from ours. That
is to say, there is nothing inherent in a factor itself that makes it independent or dependent; a
factor that is independent in our design may in another work be used as the dependent
factor or the effect of estimation.

Information
security
management

501

ICS
25,5

502

3. Method
Uneducated employees and/or unethical employee behavior are the causes of information
security risk (Abawajy, 2014; Arce, 2003). It is clear that security risk cannot just be
eliminated solely via security awareness without effective implementation and enforcement
of compliances by organization management boards. In this study, we ﬁrst analyzed levels
of employee information security awareness regarding information security risk via their
observational and behavioral viewpoints. We were also aware that employee awareness of
information security does not guarantee that they will be compliant; therefore, we extended
the scope of the study to analyze top management board individuals’ information security
awareness, and we proposed an effective information security policy compliance guideline.
We developed a conceptual framework, illustrated in Figure 1, using the simple build tool
(SBT), to explain how employees comply with information security policies.
Before developing the instrument for the survey, we ﬁrst identiﬁed and developed
effective measurements built upon the existing literature, prepared our survey
questionnaires according to past studies, and analyzed our ﬁndings based on previous
qualitative analyses. We were able to collect data by using a cross-sectional questionnaire
and a Likert scale as in the work of Iﬁnedo and Olsen (2014) and Witherspoon et al. (2013).
All surveyed questions shown in Appendix are related to an item illustrated in Table I.
Data analysis was conducted with SPSS as described in the SPSS Analysis diagram in
Figure 2.
3.1 Data collection
In Germany, we approached different organizations that ranged in both size and how they
approach information security management. We then divided the three participating
organizations into cases: Case 1, a private bank with over 1,500 employees; Case 2, an
automobile manufacturer; and Case 3, a FinTech startup company with 125 employees.
Participants were requested to answer different questions, including demographic
information including age, gender, and position. We focused on data from the senior
directors, functional managers, IT specialists and personnel in all three organizations. All
participants had internet access and use the internet in various departments.
A preliminary workshop for a pilot test explained the questions to the participants and
ensured that each participant understood the purpose of the research study. Each question
was explained in various ways to ensure that all questions were understood in the same
manner by all participants. After this phase, participants were asked to answer the cross-

Figure 1.
A conceptual
framework

Question related items

Description

Knowledge and information
management (KIM)

Q1-Q30 are related to how the employees value and use information in the
company. For example, if they are aware of KIM and who is responsible
for their organization KIM as well as how their organizations have
assessed and identiﬁed critical information
Q31-Q38 are related to how organizations keep records, share information,
destroy and dispose created information. Furthermore, they are also
related to the responsibility of record management and their storage, the
sustainability of digital records, retention procedures, disposal policies
and how data are transferred
Q39-Q44 are related to how these organizations secure data and re-use
data, how they meet freedom of information (FOI) requests and if they are
aware of their technical environment that enhances their information
Q45-Q62 are related to change management programs that are held in the
organization. Subsequently, change management programs and clariﬁed
procedures that enable them to examine completeness, availability and
usability of data asset after any change. The questions are also related to
information security training, induction programs, staff responsibilities,
change management, policies and guidance. We also wanted to be
informed on governance and leadership in these organizations such as:
any naming conventions that are mandatory to abide by as well as their
strategic management, business objectives, resourcing, risk management
and management supports and control
Q63-Q69 are based on both individual and organizational culture.
Furthermore, these questions are also related to employees’ commitment,
knowledge sharing, collaboration, communication and understanding. For
example, how effective is the sharing of knowledge enhances KIM
networks, communities and if there are several strategies that have been
adopted to enhance internal communication and collaboration in these
organizations

Records management

Information access
Compliance/governance and
leadership

Culture

Information
security
management

503

Table I.
Questionnaire and
related items

Figure 2.
SSPS analyzer

sectional questionnaire survey composed of closed-ended questions. These questions were
intended to gather and measure quantitative data on a diversity of interests.
We applied the Microsoft© Access Management Matrix that helped us to determine what
data would be needed for this study, and from whom to collect these data, by listing all
management levels vertically and department levels horizontally. Owing to data policy, an
agreement was written and signed by the researchers stating that the collected data would

ICS
25,5

504

be used for only this study and would not be shared with any third party. After they agreed
to the terms and conditions, we presented them with the questionnaires. The pilot testing
during the initial phase assured that all participants understood the questions. The pilot test
consisted of 70 questions, compared to the 50 questions in the ﬁnal version shown in the
Appendix. Time spent on social media sites via using company computers and networks
was questioned as well. The role of employees in information security breaches and their
adherence to security policies were also asked. A comment ﬁeld was added in the form for
participants to share their experiences, worries and the reasons that drive them not to abide
by information security policies.
We extended the standard data collection and sped up collection by sending a link of the
website form via a mass mail to all other participants. The top personnel were asked how
they view their roles in information security management and infrastructure development.
They were also asked how they manage their security policy, how they see the role of
human factors in information technology, and how they train their personnel on information
security risks. The surveys took an estimated 45 min to complete. All answers were saved in
a MySQL database.
3.2 Demographics
The reason for this research was to explore information security management, explore the
human aspect in organizations and propose a compliance guideline for organizations. We
mailed a total of 955 questionnaires to participants using mass mail software, and received
633 completed responses. These data were saved in a database for further analyses. We also
printed 100 copies and distributed them to other participants, so that our answered
questionnaires totaled 733, which enabled us to analyze the data.
3.3 Results
We used a structural equation model (SEM) as was conducted in Hair et al. (2010) because of
the simplicity and accuracy of this type of model. SEM has various methodologies that
enabled the depiction of relationships among variables. It also provided a quantitative
sample of our proposed model (Tables II and III). Furthermore, because our work in this
study was based on past literature reviews, involvement theories and social hypotheses, we
used the three fundamental methodologies of SEM: conﬁrmatory factor analysis, regression
analysis and path analysis, similar to the work of Schumacker and Lomax (2010). Certain
variables that could not be observed, such as collaboration, job contentment, employee
devotion, work experience, socialization, creativity, knowledge sharing via SNS,
commitment and others, were measured by few items. These variables were considered as
latent variables which were then modelled using both the structural and measurement
models within SEM.
Following the work of Gaur (2009), our measurement model focused on the relationship
that exists between the variables we observed and those we classiﬁed as latent, while our
structural model focused on the latent variables.
4. Findings and analysis
In all three organizations in our study, we found that the main issues that trigger security
incidents and that hinder the accomplishment and enhancement of information security
compliance were based on different factors. For example, we found that employee behavior
is the most common obstacle associated with information security compliance (e.g.
password sharing, password written down on a piece of paper, using shortcuts, visiting
unauthorized websites, downloading unapproved internet programs from the internet,

Variables

Total (%)

Gender
Male
Female

60
40

Age
18-30 years
31-40 years
41-50 years
50 þ years

20
35
40
5

Position
Senior directors
Functional directors
IT specialists
Personnel

15
20
15
50

Participants from each CASE
CASE 1 – Bank
CASE 2 – Automobile
CASE 3 – FINTECH startup

60
25
10

Level of education
Elementary school
Number
%
Secondary school
Number
%
High school
Number
%
Associate programs
Number
%
HND
Number
%
Bachelor
Number
%
Masters
Number
%
PhD
Number
%
Total
Number
%

Academic

Group
Administrative

0
0.0

15
1.14

0
0.0

0
0.0

33
2.5

0
0.0

2
0.15

211
16.05

0
0.0

3
0.23

27
2.05

776
59.1

2
0.15

19
1.4

0
0.0

59
4.5

21
1.6

0
0.0

37
2.81

5
0.4

0
0.0

95
7.2

9
0.7

0
0.0

198
15.06

340
25.87

Students

776
59.1

Information
security
management

505

Table II.
Demographic of
participants

Total

Table III.
Demographics of
1314 respondents based on
educational level

ICS
25,5

506

opening unapproved email attachments, disregarding important security strategies, lack of
knowledge, poor information security training, keeping relevant information to themselves,
lack of commitment, lack of security awareness, security infringement(s) not reported,
culprit(s) not punished, weak security-related guidelines and lack of security compliance
regulations). On the organizational level, we found that employees do not comply with
organization rules and regulations due to lack of organization handbooks with clear rules
and regulations, as well as lack of information security training, lack of managerial direction
and absence of compliance departments. On the technical level, we found that both the
automobile and the bank institutes were still using legacy technology devices and
traditional information security management standards that do not meet their needs.
Furthermore, we realized that in all the organizations, employees were reluctant to share
knowledge or collaborate in the context of information security. The FinTech organization
lacked the following: effective information security training courses, workshops, security
notices, monthly mass-mails in the context of information security, company social network
webpage and general company procedures. All these ﬁndings answer RQ1 and RQ2 as
illustrated in Table IV.
To determine if our conceptual framework and ﬁndings describe employee information
security activities that occur over the span of managing day-to-day activities, we used the
SPSS statistical software to develop an in-depth visual evaluation of the ﬁndings. This
visual evaluation enabled us to detect patterns and relationships that exist with employee

Organizations

Causes

Hindrance

Bank

Poor or ill management,
employee errors, and
noncompliance
Access violation: malicious
and/or viral software
Not complying with
organization rules and
regulations

Automobile

Poor or ill management,
employee errors, and
noncompliance
Access violation: malicious
and/or viral software
Not complying with
organization rules and
regulations
Sharing passwords and
engaging in private social
networks and/or emails
Poor or ill management,
employee errors, and
noncompliance
Access violation: malicious
and/or viral software
Hardware failure(s)

Due to poor security “know-how” and “know-why”.
Lack of security awareness and training respectively.
Poor administrative directives and/or roles
Poor organizational structure. Lack of knowledge on
whom to contact as well as the absence of clear
deﬁnitions of security process and roles. Lack of
collaboration, communication and commitment
Lack of security compliance regulations and lack of
security policy compliance training
Due to poor security “know-how” and “know-why”.
Lack of security awareness and training respectively.
Poor administrative directives and roles. Lack of
collaboration, communication and commitment
Poor organizational structure. Lack of knowledge on
whom to contact as well as the absence of clear
deﬁnitions of security process and roles
Lack of security compliance regulations and lack of
security policy compliance training
Lack of security awareness; security infringement(s) not
reported and culprit(s) not punished
Due to poor security “know-how” and “know-why”.
Lack of security awareness and training respectively.
Poor administrative directives and roles
Poor organizational structure. Lack of knowledge on
whom to contact as well as the absence of clear
deﬁnitions of security process and roles. Lack of
commitment
Budget constraint(s)

FinTech startup

Table IV.
Causes of security
incidents and
hindrance

information security-related conduct in the three organizations. The SPSS analysis produced
the results that satisﬁed our main research aim.
As shown in Figures 2 and 3, the primary driver of security risk is not only employee
error but also lack of information security training and unskilled management boards. The
head of the IT manager at the bank stated that human errors are the main issues of the bank,
e.g. employees downloading unauthorized software that many contain viral and/or
malicious data and/or programs. The data protection unit manager also stated that lack of
information security training has become a problem that need to be addressed. He added
that the heads of the organization consider security training as a waste of investment. The
head of the management board added that most security training costs large sums of money,
yet have not delivered results or improvements.
We also identiﬁed that both the automobile company and the FinTech startup had
difﬁculties with administrative errors and security managers. Most of their security
managers are bachelor degree-holding individuals that have no or low experience in
real-world information security management. The FinTech company also had budget
constraints that hindered them from implementing strategic security mechanisms and/
or a process to enhance or protect organizational data.Other attributes such as budget
constraints, operation, organizing, budgeting, time-frame, managing and reporting
procedures and cost of security training and outcomes were all part of our ﬁndings.
Our literature review and results indicate various aspects of administering information
security management in different contexts. We focused on human aspects in information
security management, technical factors, organization policies, employee security awareness
training, technologies adopted, employees’ collaboration and commitment to the
organization, activities of the management boards and how security is viewed in their
business domain. From this we cannot simply conclude that information security awareness
will keep data safe without training the employees on this subject. Training the employees
on information security management can enable employees to know why security is
important; however, lack of compliance in this context will not make this training effective
at reducing security breaches. Various studies have focused on both security awareness and
security training, but none has been able to solve the security issues that these organizations
currently face.
We present a comprehensive information security management plan based on the
NFC that ensures the transfer of knowledge regarding information security and potential
threats to organization data assets. According to Hagen et al. (2008), increasing

Information
security
management

507

Figure 3.
Stacked chart

ICS
25,5

508

knowledge in security awareness is more effective at increasing policy compliance than
other information security management measures. Albrechtsen and Hovden (2010) added
that information security training directs and enhances employee behavior toward policy
compliance. Siponen et al. (2014) argued that without employees complying with security
policies, security awareness training will not be an adequate solution. It is therefore clear,
that employees need to be trained on policy compliance. Ma et al. (2009) highlighted this,
and further studied the essential role that compliance training has on information
security management. Rubenstein and Francis (2008) studied how policy compliance can
prevent access policy violations. Parsons et al. (2014) studied how compliance training
has had various positive effects on numerous organizations.
5. Study limitations
We encountered limitations during this study. Some of the data collected were from
organizations that were externally regulated. The FinTech external regulator initially
disapproved the project due to risk management (i.e. not realizing ﬁnance and risk
alignment beneﬁts). The external regulators believed that the FinTech organization lacked
the capability needed to execute compliance policies successfully in the real world. It was a
tedious task to acquire authorization from these regulators for surveys and data collection in
the area of information security. In any case, the data we collected were enhanced with a
greater sample size by including the other organizations.
Owing to information security management unawareness of employees, some of the staff
members at the bank resisted the survey (Joshi, 2005). These staff members did not
comprehend the importance of our research because of changing and new challenges in IT
security risk that have arisen in recent years (Kim and Pan, 2006). This could have been
solved via another workshop to explain the reason behind this survey.
Another critical problem in our study came from the failure to control for duplicated
responses by employees that took part in the online survey. Such issues could be mitigated
in the future by ensuring that each person enters his or her email address as well as
recording the employee MAC or IP addresses. With this approach, we could have identiﬁed
employees with multiple responses or prevent duplication from occurring.
6. Compliance guidelines and decision-making
Globalization and emerging markets have increased the complexity of information
sharing. This complexity has also increased security risks, which has become a large
issue in many organizations’ information security management. Recent studies have
depicted how organizations are deploying technology solutions and other strategies to
eliminate these risks. From our ﬁndings, none of these approaches yielded positive
results, while some organizations are not even aware of the importance of data security.
On the other hand, modern organizations rely on information to make decisions that are
used to carry out organizational activities. In this section, we answer RQ3 by proposing a
principle that will enhance the development and implementation of information security
management policies in an organization. This will also help eliminate various issues with
respect to information security management and help to enhance productivity in an
organization.
There are numerous ISRM standards but not limited to the ISO27000 series (ISO27001,
ISO27002), SAS70, SOC2 and PCI DSS. In this work, we propose a new principle called the
NFC that can be conﬁgured to meet individual organizational needs. The proposed principle
will indicate the necessities for the implementation of operational and information security
enhancements. It also puts more emphasis on the measurement and evaluation of

organization ISMI performance and outsourcing. We can relate our principle to the
ISO27001:2013 and supersedes the ISO27001:2005 (Bresin, 2014; Mackie, 2013; Herbert,
2014). The NFC prescribes an administration model to empower organizations in planning
and vigilance in:
 How information systems are understood and how those systems identify critical
events.
 What security counter measures have been deployed for information protection.
 How valuable data assets have been identiﬁed and how they are protected.
 What process the organization has used to identify applicable legal, regulatory, and
other obligations.
Speciﬁc guidelines are not provided by NFC; however, it enables organizations to manage
information security in an organized way by providing a principle to enhance the
management of security measures, potential risks, uncertainty, unpredictable incidents and
compliance.
At this phase of our study, we cannot conclude that the standard ISO27001 and ISO
27002 will ﬁt organizations that are eager to identify or detect potential risk. This is due to
the fact that, using the ISO27001 standard checklist would be excessively speciﬁc and would
decrease ﬂexibility in processing information security management tasks in this study. The
ISO27001 is presumably the most well-known of all the ISO standards owing to the essential
tools it provides to enhance security of information. For example, one of the greatest myths
about ISO27001 is that it is centered around IT; however, we cannot agree to this because IT
cannot secure information alone. In the context of security, human resource management,
physical security, legal protection, organizational issues and how they are interrelated are
required to secure information as in the context of the NFC principle. Therefore, this study
proposes the NFC to support the general procedure of information security management by
taking not only IT into consideration but also human resource management, physical
security, legal protection, organizational issues and how they are all interrelated to secure
information. We propose that an organization following the NFC principle or framework can
effectively measure their risk and deploy robust security measures based on their needs. As
in the case of the ISO27001, an organization can select from the 114 controls, which will
provide instruction on what an organization needs to accomplish, yet does not provide the
information on how this should be accomplished. Moreover, these 114 controls can be
misleading, as the implementation guidance prescribes various actual controls in the details.
This is the purpose of the ISO27002, which provides more details on implementation.
However, an organization cannot use only the ISO27002 because it does not provide any
information about which controls should be implemented, how to measure them, or how to
assign them to the right people. The ISO27002 is an advisory document and not a formal
speciﬁcation like the ISO27001.
6.1 Our proposed principle
The NFC principle is deﬁned as a strategic diagram that shows the potential factors that
prevent the successful development and implementation of an information security
management strategy. This principle is mainly a process used to design, to identify and to
mitigate potential factors causing an overall hindrance in security-related policy compliance
within an organization. Every potential factor that generates any hindrance is a cause of
variation that should be addressed.

Information
security
management

509

ICS
25,5

510

In Table IV, we deﬁned several incidents that hinder information security management
in organizations through our data collection and ﬁndings. In this section, we propose a
principle that enhances the interrelationship between technology and human factors in an
organization for the deployment of successful information security management (Werlinger
et al., 2009; Abawajy, 2014; Arachchilage and Love, 2014; Kritzinger and von Solms, 2010).
In this work, we derived ﬁve causes and hindrances after analyzing the data using SPSS, as
depicted in Figures 2 and 3. These causes and hindrances are:
 lack of security interest;
 lack of security awareness training;
 lack of management directives;
 absence of compliance policy; and
 hardware failures.
We then propose the NFC principle to solve those issues, rather than using any general
standard guidelines that has been proposed in the literature thus far. The NFC principle should
enable us to come up with a moderate procedure for successful development and
implementation of an information security management strategy based on organizational
needs. In this work, the comprehensive nature of the NFC principle should enable us to enhance
the interrelationship of technology and human factors highlighted above, and to close the
knowledge gaps that still exist for the deployment of a successful information security
management strategy. Figure 4 introduces our NFC principle with the ﬁve causes and
hindrances we derived from the SPSS analysis. These causes and hindrances are grouped into
attributes and categorized as potential key factors. The key factors are held together by the
central point of the NFC that consists of all the prerequisites that are essentially needed for the
development and implementation of the ISRM. In our work, we developed a conceptual
framework, illustrated in Figure 1, using the SBT to explain how employees comply with
information security policies. Here, the variables that were not observed, such as job
contentment, employee devotion, work experience, socialization, creativity, knowledge sharing
via SNS and commitment are considered as our latent variables as shown in Figure 6. Other
prerequisites include, but are not limited to, collaboration, cultural, conﬁdentiality, integrity,
moral agreements, certiﬁed leaders and communication. Therefore, our prerequisites (including
our latent variables) are the blueprint in the development and implementation of ISRM in the
concept of the NFC. These prerequisites are the shaft on which the NFC oscillates. The key
factors are joined together by a dynamic compliance process standard that involves:
 awareness of the compliance regulation;
 controlling integration; and
 closing gaps.
Both the key factors and the central point prerequisites are enclosed in the control
integration and close gaps dynamic. The rotation starts at the 9 o’clock, 12 o’clock, 3 o’clock,
5 o’clock and 7 o’clock positions. The entire process repeats itself after each life cycle during
a time span, and it needs to be adjusted frequently.
6.1.1 Why the nine-ﬁve-circle. The NFC is a portable, simple and improved starting
point when compared to other principles and frameworks, such as the standard
ISO27001 and ISO27002, which come with different distinct features. For example, the
ISO 27002 does not make a distinction between controls applicable to a particular
organization and those which are not, while the ISO27001 prescribes a risk assessment

Information
security
management

511

Figure 4.
NFC principle with
SPSS evaluation
results

to be performed to identify for each control whether it is required to decrease the risks,
and if it is, to what extent it should be applied. Here, we can see that both standards are
different, but lack the positive attributes of both tools when combined. This is where
the NFC comes in, taking usability in to consideration and using a single standard that
makes it simple and portable for practical use. The NFC also focuses on design,
identiﬁcation and mitigation of potential factors causing an overall hindrance to
security-related policy compliance within an organization. Every potential factor that
generates any hindrance is a cause of variation that should be addressed in the NFC
context, unlike the ISO27000 where standards are designed for certain focus. For
example, the ISO27001 is for building an information security foundation in an
organization, the ISO27002 is for the control implementation, and the ISO27005 is for
carrying out risk assessment and risk treatment. The NFC combines all these with a
dynamic compliance process standard that involves:
 awareness of the compliance regulation;
 controlling integration; and
 closing gaps.
Both the key factors and the central point prerequisites are enclosed in the control integration
and close gaps dynamic. The NFC also enhances the interrelationship between technology and
human factors and these are not seen in the context of ISO27000. In this paper, Figure 4

ICS
25,5

512

introduces our NFC principle with the ﬁve causes and hindrances we derived from the SPSS
analysis.
6.2 Applying the nine-ﬁve-circle in this study
As shown in Figure 4 and Table V, the ﬁve key factors (lack of security interest, lack of
information security training and awareness, lack of management directives, absence of
compliance policy and hardware failures) are all joined with the central point. Security
training and awareness have been separated on our SPSS results in Figures 2 and 3 because
employees might be aware of security issues but without training, they might make costly
errors in regard to information security. Therefore, security awareness training should be
implemented to reduce or eliminate costly errors among employees in the context of
information security. Here, the security awareness training includes, but is not limited to,
workshop training sessions, security programs, security awareness websites or emailed
information. All these procedures are capable of enhancing employee understanding of
organizational security policy, process and best practices.
Starting from the 9 o’clock position, we have placed our ﬁrst key, lack of security interest,
followed by lack of security awareness training and awareness, lack of management
directives, absence of compliance policy and hardware failures. In the NFC, it is essential to
address the SPSS analysis results efﬁciently based on how critical each key factor is
assessed, and how they affect other key factors by taking the needs of the organization into
account within each life cycle.
To ensure that an organization’s compliance is established and followed, the NFC principle
provides a dynamic compliance process. Here, organizations need to consider that compliance
is not a product, but a continuous process that needs to be adjusted frequently to meet
administrative constraints and needs. Frequent reassessment will enhance organization
activities – especially in the context of security issues, due to the rapid advancement of
Information Technology (IT) and increases in its associated risks. Therefore, our proposed
principle comes with a dynamic compliance process standard that involves:
 awareness of the compliance regulation;
 controlling integration; and
 closing gaps.
6.2.1 Awareness of compliance regulation. The ﬁrst step in NFC is to identify the type of
governance that will ﬁt in the business domain and then to list any related controls. In this
work, we address the ﬁve security issues that face the three organizations. As discussed
earlier on, the NFC can be scoped to meet individual organization needs; however, for the
sake of time, we will address all the three case studies as one example. The ﬁrst phase in the
NFC principle is to identify metrics that consist of operation, organizing, budgeting, timeframe, managing and reporting procedures. These will enable the management board to use

SPSS Results

Table V.
SPSS Evaluation
table

Lack of security interest
Lack of security awareness training
Absence of compliance policy;
Lack of management directives
Hardware failures

Fintech (%)

Bank (%)

Automobile (%)

10
30
52
59
55

2
21
66
82
1

1
20
65
80
2

that information effectively in the business units, in accordance with regulations and to
provide strategic outcomes. From our analysis and ﬁndings, the proposed metric consists of
the following:
 End to end: All members should understand how their efforts contribute to the
results. All members need to have a broad understanding of input and output
procedures and the effectiveness of the drivers.
 Balance: Here we propose that organizations should incorporate the measurement of
their viability and productivity. The utilization of the scorecards will enable
organizations to quantify progression status as well as the adequacy of educational
programs, occasionally on an alternate cadence than the execution reporting.
Lack of security concern is driven by lack of security awareness training initiatives, and
both are due to the absence of policy compliance which is due to lack of management
directives and collaboration. Hardware failure could also be seen in this study as being
caused by both human and technology factors. Hence it is clear from our SPSS analysis that
these factors are interrelated and need to be addressed efﬁciently for the successful
development of ISRM. Furthermore, each of our ﬁndings is a critical factor that needs to be
addressed efﬁciently.
6.2.1.1 Lack of security interest, lack of security awareness training and hardware. In
this study, the three key factors (variables) are related and need to be address ﬁrst. Here, the
organization should develop a formal security awareness team that will be responsible for
the development and implementation of a security awareness program. It is also vital that
during this phase, each organization has a skilled team, either internally or externally, to
maintain this program and all associated hardware. In the NFC, the process of getting the
right people is termed as assembling the security awareness team. The next step in this
phase of the NFC is to determine roles for the security awareness program. This is vital in
the NFC principle since it enables each organization to train its personnel based on their job
functions. This training is extendable, based on subject and area of expertise. Other areas
can be joined or removed during this process. The goal here is to develop various levels of
in-depth training to enable the organizations to convey the correct training to the perfect
individuals at the right time. This approach will enhance each organization’s security
compliance and the consistency of NFC. Thus, NFC can be applied as a singular approach,
or holistic approach, or tiered approach, depending on the organization’s prerequisites. One
critical point in the phase of selecting the right people in the NFC is to group individuals by
their job functions. In this work, we have identiﬁed three roles, such as “all employees”, “top
personnel” and the “management team”. The next phase of the NFC is to apply a tool that
can enhance ISRM. It is vital that the proposed programs and hardware are solid for all the
groups. In the context of the group “all employees” the proposed program should aim to
enable this group to recognize security threats and embrace security as an enhancement tool
which is aimed to increase their security interests, and for them to feel comfortable to report
those employees creating security risks. The “top personnel” group should concentrate on
the employee’s commitment to follow security protocols for accessing delicate information
and perceive the related dangers if access is abused. The “management” group should
comprehend the organization’s approach to security and security requirements well enough
to examine and strengthen the message to all personnel, encourage personnel security
awareness, and perceive and address security-related issues when they arise. As a
recommended tool, a “bolt-on tool” can be adopted in this work to enable leaders to have a
picture of service-level agreement (SLA) performances and have an in-depth view to analyze
main causes. The next phase is to develop a fundamental security awareness level for all

Information
security
management

513

ICS
25,5

514

Figure 5.
Increasing security
interest through a
depth security
awareness training
program

personnel based on the security awareness program. We recommend security awareness to
be transferred either via emails, posters and computer-based training without any
restriction in any form. Here we recommend that such security programs should be
delivered with regards to the organization culture. This step in the NFC is seen as the
development of minimum security awareness. We depict the depth of security awareness
training as seen in Figure 5 and illustrate how this stage of the NFC can increase the depth
of security awareness and enhance security interest through solid security awareness
programs. This process needs to be repeated frequently because in time, the interest of these
top managers and other workers deteriorates and causes such projects also to deteriorate.
Furthermore, a classiﬁcation policy might work during a period of time, but when
technology changes, both organizations people change. This means old policies will be made
obsolete and one cannot comply with an obsolete document.
Up to this stage in our paper, it is clear that the NFC supersedes both the ISO27001 and
the ISO27002 because both standards need to be combined to achieve what the NFC can
accomplish. The ISO27002 provides more details on implementation, but one cannot use it
alone as stated in section 6 in this paper because it does not provide any information on
which controls need to be implemented, how to measure them and how to assign them to the
right people. The combination of the two ISO27000 standards can increase the complexity in
the ISRM for companies that are eager to enhance security in a ﬂexible environment. Some
organizations can even abuse the ISO27001 adaptability and concentrate just on the
minimum controls with a speciﬁc end goal to pass the certiﬁcation. However, this abuse of
the certiﬁcation process is beyond the scope of this study.
As discussed earlier on, the NFC can be scoped to match an individual organization’s
needs. Thus, the training that is held during this phase can be further broken down to map
each organizational requirement. For instance, because the percentage of security interest is
higher in the FinTech sector than the rest, the FinTech organization could decide on which
roles may not need security training in this phase. This enables each organization to
determine the content of training that is needed. Because technological and human factors
are interrelated and work together in the NFC principle, a communication channel is needed
to deliver security awareness throughout the organization. This is seen as a suitable manner
to deliver signiﬁcant resources to the right people that ﬁt the organization’s interests and
culture. As discussed earlier, this form of delivery is not restricted to any communication
gateways (hardware and software), but rather, what ﬁts the organization. This ﬂexibility of
delivery enhances how employees receive information. However, we recommend that each

organization limit its delivery channels so as to enable individuals to remember how
information is delivered to them. The communication channel should be made clear to all
newly hired personnel and be updated for existing personnel. It is also important in the NFC
that both the training content and the communication channel used correspond to each
group receiving that particular training. As shown in Figure 6, security awareness needs to
be consolidated with other prerequisites located at the central point of the NFC, such as
collaboration, culture, conﬁdentiality, integrity, moral agreements, certiﬁed skilled leaders,
communication and commitment. Furthermore, because employees react to change in a
critical manner, these prerequisites enhance the transparency of the proposed security
program and any change that might occur. To guarantee that each group is informed at any
point in time when there is a need to occupy a security awareness position, we recommend
the organizations add this procedure in their recruiting and re-classiﬁcations so that general
security awareness training objectives will be actively encouraged without dependence on
an individual authoritative unit. Collaboration is characterized as working together with a
speciﬁc end goal to accomplish an objective. Collaboration comes with participation,
commitment, and teamwork. It is seen as a procedure in which at least two people, groups or
organizations, cooperate to achieve shared objectives. The collaboration in information
security management enables experts to gather, coordinate, group, disseminate, and share
information security know-how with other experts and co-workers. Ahmad et al. (2012)
highlighted on the impact of collaboration and communication in the context of information
security management. According to Feledi et al. (2013), collaboration involves
documentation and scheduling events and can be seen as proposing or submitting,
reviewing, commenting and improving knowledge. The organization should also have the
right tools to monitor and detect staff activities. For example, accessing violations such as
malicious and/or viral software, monitoring unauthorized websites, a tool to monitor and
approve the downloading of internet programs and email attachments. Furthermore, other

Information
security
management

515

Figure 6.
Communication
channels for security
awareness training
program

ICS
25,5

516

tools to enable productive procedures need to be considered. An example is to enable the
organization to assemble, and enhance awareness in performance.
6.2.1.2 Lack of management directives. Management leadership and support activity are
considered the most critical factors for the security awareness program, and we urge
organizations to encourage all personnel to participate and abide by security awareness
principles during the life cycle of the NFC. The compliance project should be assigned to a
certiﬁed leader who has essential abilities. There are several certiﬁcations that organizations
could look for when deciding on a competent leader such as the CISM, CISSP Lead ISO27001
certiﬁcate or the CISA.Here, governing bodies should challenge and question standards at
any time, and a responsibility assessment metric should be established to enable an
operational team to establish joint decisions frequently. A suitable security awareness
method should be established to enforce the security awareness program on the employees.
Security metrics should also be added where appropriate, to measure both management and
staff performance. The governance team should be proactive and react to any situation by
monitoring and measuring progress with deliveries. This is vital for organizations that
consolidate procedures and policy and operate globally. All resolved obstructions should be
surveyed by the leaders and they should subsequently adjust various procedure plans into a
single cognizant fund plan. Mandates should be established to address the punishment of
culprits, security-related guidelines and lack of security compliance regulations. We
recommend organizations renew the entire process frequently, as compliance is not a
product, but a continuous process that needs to be adjusted frequently to meet
administrative constraints and needs. Frequent assessment will enhance organization
activities, especially, in the context of security issues due to the rapid speed of IT and its
associated risks.
6.2.2 Control integration. The integration phase is where both the control activities and
governance targets are deﬁned and institutionalized. Here, the extent to which all the critical
factors and latent factors interrelate as well as their main effects are measured. The NFC has
the ability to represent unobserved factors or variables in these relationships and account
for measurement error in the compliance process. To acquire dependable and predictable
result of ISRM development and implementation in the NFC principle, the whole procedure
should be controlled and measured persistently. To archive that, the complexities of
the procedure in terms of different latent variables and interrelated variables need to be
separated, comprehended and re-integrated into a point of view to empower complete
understanding of the process. The critical issues affecting developing and implementing
ISRM need to be identiﬁed understood and controlled during the integration. Here
procedures such as organizational risk, control targets, testing process, hardware and
software tools are all encompassed. This phase enables auditing, identiﬁcation of noncompliant components and deﬁnition of the sources of relationships in governance based on
organization risk (Reding et al., 2013). At this level, we can see that the NFC is not
prescriptive, but it provides organizations with information and tools to make decisions
based on their needs – what needs to be done and how to accomplish it. It is also a principle
that enables organizations to decide on appropriate protections and to take measurements.
6.2.3 Closing gaps. The absence of compliance in an organization is an indication of poor
security measures, causing security risks. Organizations that lack compliance should make
sure that decision-making includes mechanisms that will enable them to make dynamic
decisions and select mitigating strategies. Lack of information security policy compliance
can trigger defective security systems and endanger the business domain. Organizations
need to weigh the costs and the risks during mitigation. An advisory board should be set
that will advise the IT team regarding the controls needed. Hence, our proposed principle

supports our hypothesis in this study that technology and human factors are interrelated
and work together for the successful deployment and implementation of information
security management in an organization.
7. Implications for research, practice and/or society
Our main objective in this study was to address the lack of research evidence on what
mobilizes and inﬂuences information security management development and
implementation. We have fulﬁlled this objective by surveying, collecting and analyzing
data and giving an account of the attributes that hinder information security
management. Accordingly, a major practical contribution of the present research is the
empirical data it provides that enables us to have a bigger picture and precise
information about the real issues that cause information security management
shortcomings. Assessing an organization’s valuable information will highlight the
activities of the CEO, IT managers, top-level personnel, policymakers, consultants and
trainers to design initiatives, apparatuses and actions in view of what strategy needs to
be adopted to implement information security management, what they need to do and
where they are now in terms of security-related issues, as opposed to what they think
they ought to do. For instance, policymakers could observe that more often than not, top
personnel will not read policies speciﬁcally and are probably going to pass them to their
immediate staff members. This will enable them to reformat their policies accordingly.
We believe that, various organizations could derive comparative implications through
some of our ﬁndings.
Additionally, we believe that our research is especially convenient for several
organizations to become more open to challenge and scrutiny. In the event that an
organization is having inaccurate idea of their business domain security issues, they
may be driven to the idea of applying our NFC principle. This might enable them to
develop audit trails of proof in the context of their information systems before making
decisions, as opposed to applying standard guidelines which may result in excluding
the essential attributes rather than providing them with more prominence attributes,
such as, how the employees react to policies, collaboration, communication and
commitment. For example, the ISO27001 standard comes with the importance of
statement of applicability (SoA), while the ISO9001 comes with the central document
that characterizes how an organization should execute a large part of their information
security. This documentation is underrated in the context of NFC because most
organizations implementing the ISO27001 invest more time writing this document than
they expected. While this type of information could constitute a critical source of
knowledge, the risk is that it is disregarded and not valued enough of the fact that it
does not ﬁt the customary formal idea of what constitutes information security
management development and have no use in real life.
Furthermore, another essential implication of our study derives from our ﬁndings. Our
ﬁndings indicate a particular set of information sources, capacities, decision strategies, staff
and organization attitudes toward security-related issues that can help to close the gap
between technology and humans in the context of information security management.
Although analyzing the data we collected with a view to distinguishing and systematizing
employee skills, behavior, collaboration, commitment, security interest, skilled management
directives, technically and frequent security-related issues training goes beyond the remit of
this study. We have made contacts with other major ﬁrms to explore how this can be
accomplished cooperatively in the near future.

Information
security
management

517

ICS
25,5

518

Our study is focused on how to nurture and enhance organizations to develop and
implement a rigid security policy compliance. Our discoveries recommend in actuality that
using ﬂexible tools that can be scoped to meet individual organizational needs have positive
effects in the implementation of information security management policies within an
organization. Accordingly, our research proposes that organizations should forsake the
oversimpliﬁed generalized guidelines that neglect the veriﬁcation of the difference in
information security requirements in various organizations. Instead, they should focus on
the issue of how to sustain and enhance their organization’s compliance through a dynamic
compliance process that involves: awareness of the compliance regulation, controlling
integration and closing gaps.
In this sense, despite the fact that our study has limitations concerning the development
of a diagnostic tool, it is obviously the main procedure for the measurements of a framework
to assess information security compliance policies in the organizations we surveyed.
Furthermore, such measurements, which we derived from the SPSS in Figures 2 and 3
subsequently from our NFC in Figure 6 above, recommend that these organizations should
reﬂects on the following questions:
Q1. What sort of a leadership should be in charge of the Information security
management policies?
Q2. What is the nature of their organization and current information management?
Q3. What is the nature of their organization security policies at present (e.g.
commitment, collaboration, employees’ knowledge sharing, humans, technology
and how all these factors interrelate and work together?
Q4. What individual information security principles do they have a tendency to adopt
(for example; a principle that can enhance both internal and external environment of
the organization information security policies as well as policy compliance
operation and strategic)?
Q5. They also have to assess if they do have the right framework set up (both humans
and technology, e.g. employees commitment, collaboration and skilled leadership)
to permit them to establish a rigid policy compliance.
The principle we have graphically demonstrated in Figure 6 can be ﬂexible adopted
into any organization and can facilitate vital procedures of developing and
implementing rigid information security management policies on the demand of each
company over time. The NFC principle likewise recommends that organizations ought
to abandon the possibility of general standard ISRM tools that refuse to address the
issue of information security management knowledge mobilization in their business
domain and focus on tools that can be adjusted to meet the demand of their
organization, which in turn, will provide individual and sensitive approaches and
solutions in the context of information security management.
7.1 Implications for future research
Our study was based on exploratory and interpretive nature and raises various
opportunities for future research, both regarding hypothesis development and idea
validation. More research will in reality be important to reﬁne and advance expounds our
discoveries. We do believe that we have generated new ﬁndings and useful factors due to the
in-depth sampling we obtained from the three organizations we surveyed. However, very
little can be said of the nature of data that will be derived from a larger population of bigger

ﬁrms. Thus, our study could in this manner be extended to analyze a bigger set of statistical
data. Furthermore, other research can be carried out to reﬁne and validate our concepts and
constructs based on our ﬁve key factors derived from the SPSS analyzer. The principle we
proposed in this study can also be used to create various hypotheses for future empirical
testing using a more extensive sample and quantitative research strategies.
Finally, as this study limitation is discussed on Section 8, it is therefore essential for
further work to be carried out so as to analyze and examine the practices of information
security management policies compliance at major ﬁrms to explore how this can be
accomplished cooperatively in the near future as opposed to the three organizations we
surveyed in this study. Additionally, research can in this manner highlight how policy
compliance can be conducted across boundaries, such as policy compliance circulation,
sharing and exchange within a ﬁrm with several branches in nationwide or across different
countries.
8. Conclusion and limitations
Information breaches could be successfully mitigated if security policy compliance is
taken seriously in an organization (Iﬁnedo and Olsen, 2014; Vance et al., 2013). The
arguments of the information security literature and the results from our survey on
information security policy compliance via leadership decisions, employee
commitment, collaboration and communication have been the main focus of this work.
Certain variables such as knowledge sharing, socialization, work experience, skilled
leadership management and intervention can direct employee behaviors toward
compliance with information security policies and processes. Sharing information
knowledge in an organization enhances both security awareness and the essence of
organization security policy compliance and their processes. Leaders in the
organization should encourage the importance of knowledge sharing via information
security management training, and motivate employees through intrinsic and
extrinsic manners for information security risk abatement. Lai and Chen (2014) concur
that organization leaders can reward their staff via extrinsic motivation. There is no
reward associated with intrinsic motivation because this type of motivation is based
on the interest of the employees. Shibchurn and Yan (2015) also added that intrinsic
motivations are inﬂuenced via satisfaction, and that pleasure is inﬂuenced via
curiosity.
Based on the results from our three surveys and ﬁndings, we have proposed a principle
of information security compliance practices based on our proposed NFC principle that
enhances information security management by identifying human conduct and IT securityrelated issues regarding the aspect of information security management. Furthermore, the
NFC principle has enabled us to close the gap between technology and humans in this study
by proving that the factors in our ﬁnding are interrelated and work together, rather than on
their own. Therefore, our work presented information security standards and best practices
that could be used in most business domains. Additionally, we examined special
components and factors that organizations need to be considered when making a decision
based on standards.
Despite the fact that our methodology does not convey a new measure, it contributes to a
more reliable, good practice of information security measures that help to educate leaders
and secure the participation of employees in the context of information security
management. The principle quality of our guideline is employees’ behavior complexity and
related activities. We determined how information security collaboration enhances
employee’s conduct in the context of complying with policies. Furthermore, we found

Information
security
management

519

ICS
25,5

520

collaboration as a cooperative approach where different groups of employees work jointly
towards the same goal. Leaders can encourage this collaboration via authoritative support
and encouragement based on how these leaders reward employees and on how employee
well-being matters to the organization (Shropshire et al., 2015).
This study proposes that leaders can encourage security compliance effectiveness
by urging employees to share knowledge and collaborate in the context of information
security. Sufﬁcient information security management training also has an effect on
employee compliance with policies by providing effective information security
training courses, frequent workshops, security awareness events, notices, monthly
mass-mails, webpages and frequent meetings. Furthermore, outside events can also
enhance information security training procedure in the context of policy compliance
process.
Security awareness training employees in the context of information security
management in the right approach sheds light on information security awareness and
adds to the key factors to the success of information security management in an
organization. Another key factor in this research was selecting the right method to
support policy compliance implementation. The last key factor is related to the effect of
leadership on employee behavior towards policy compliance. Information security
“know-how” and “know-why” creates topical mastery for securing information
resources in an organization. This engenders a profound understanding of the problems
that are associated with poor information security management and throws more lights
on policy compliance.
Additionally, we encourage organizations to adopt more encompassing procedures to
deal with information security management such as: the interest of leader management. HR
management, implementation and execution of information security policy, information
security training, awakening employee security awareness and group-based decisionmaking.
We cannot conclude that information security awareness will keep data safe without
information security training. Moreover, information security training can enable
employees to know why security is important, but this alone will not solve the issues in
information security management. This indicates that, without compliance being rigidly
established and directed by organization leaders, security-awareness training will not be
effective on how humans see information security. Therefore, our work proposes an
organization to consider what alternatives there are to enable them to internally and
externally communicate security issues with employees. Also, leaders should be trained
to manage and direct employees to comply with any policies that governs the
organization. We also propose that organizations facing budget constraints and/or time
limitations to apply the NFC principle.
References
Abawajy, J. (2014), “User preference of cyber security awareness delivery methods”, Behaviour &
Information Technology, Vol. 33 No. 3, pp. 237-248, doi: 10.1080/0144929X.2012.708787.
Ahmad, A., Hadgkiss, J. and Ruighaver, A.B. (2012), “Incident response teams – challenges in
supporting the organisational security function”, Computers & Security, Vol. 31 No. 5,
pp. 643-652, doi: 10.1016/j.cose.2012.04.001.
Ahmad, A., Maynard, S.B. and Park, S. (2012), “Information security strategies: towards an
organizational multi-strategy perspective”, Intelligent Manufacturing, Vol. 25 No. 2, pp. 357-370,
available at: http://link.springer.com/10.1007/s10845-012-0683-0

Albrechtsen, E. and Hovden, J. (2010), “Improving information security awareness and behaviour
through dialogue, participation and collective reﬂection: an intervention study”, Computers &
Security, Vol. 29 No. 4, pp. 432-445.
Arachchilage, N.A.G. and Love, S. (2014), “Security awareness of computer users: a phishing threat
avoidance perspective”, Computers in Human Behavior, Vol. 38, pp. 304-312, doi: 10.1016/j.
chb.2014.05.046.
Arce, I. (2003), “The weakest link revisited”, IEEE Security & Privacy Magazine, Vol. 1 No. 2,
pp. 72-76.
Baskerville, R. (1993), “Information systems security design methods: implications for information
systems development”, Computing Surveys, Vol. 25 No. 4, pp. 375-414.
Beccaria, C. (1963), On Crime and Punishments, Bobbs Merril, Indianapolis, IN.
Boss, S.R., Kirsch, L.J., Angermeier, I., Shingler, R.A. and Boss, R.W. (2009), “If someone is watching, I’ll
do what I’m asked: mandatoriness, control, and information security”, European Journal of
Information Systems, Vol. 18 No. 2, pp. 151-164, available at: www.palgrave-journals.com/
doiﬁnder/10.1057/ejis.2009.8 (accessed 16 June 2016).
Breslin, P. (2014), Security Updates: The Upcoming Revision of ISO/IEC 27001, DNV Business
Assurance, available at: http://enewsletter.ntu.edu.sg/itconnect/2011-03/Pages/ISO27001-ISM.
aspx?AspxAutoDetectCookieSupport=1 (accessed 20 May 2016).
Cavusoglu, H., Cavusoglu, H., Son, J.-Y. and Benbasat, I. (2009), “Information security control resources
in organizations: a multidimensional view and their key drivers”, working paper, Sauder School
of Business, University of British Columbia.
Cavusoglu, H., Mishra, B. and Raghunathan, S. (2004a), “A model for evaluating IT security
investments”, Communications of the ACM, Vol. 47 No. 7, pp. 87-92.
Cavusoglu, H., Mishra, B. and Raghunathan, S. (2004b), “The effect of internet security breach
announcements on market value: capital market reactions for breached ﬁrms and
internet security developers”, International Journal of Electronic Commerce, Vol. 9 No. 1,
pp. 69-104.
Chang, S.E. and Ho, C.B. (2006), “Organizational factors to the effectiveness of implementing
information security management”, Industrial Management & Data Systems, Vol. 106 No. 3,
pp. 345-361, available at: www.emeraldinsight.com/10.1108/02635570610653498 (accessed 8 July
2016).
Chen, Y. and Hwang, K. (2006), “Collaborative detection and ﬁltering of shrew DDoS attacks
using spectral analysis”, Journal of Parallel and Distributed Computing, Vol. 66 No. 9,
pp. 1137-1151.
Chen, Y., Nazareth, D.L. and Wen, K.-W. (2010), “Research in information security: a
literature review using a multidimensional framework”, Proceedings of the Thirty-Ninth
Annual Western Decision Sciences Institute Conference (WDSI 2010), Lake Tahoe, NV,
pp. 3681-3687.
Compston, H. (2009), Policy Networks and Policy Change: Putting Policy Network Theory to the Test,
Palgrave Macmillan, Basingstoke.
Cronan, T.P., Foltz, C.B. and Jones, T.W. (2006), “Piracy, computer crime, and information
security misuse at the university”, Communications of the ACM, Vol. 49 No. 6,
pp. 84-90.
Crossler, R.E., Johnston, A.C., Lowry, P.B., Hu, Q., Warkentin, M. and Baskerville, R. (2013), “Future
directions for behavioral information security research”, Computers & Security, Vol. 32,
pp. 90-101, doi: 10.1016/j.cose.2012.09.010.
Da Veiga, A. and Martins, N. (2016), “Improving the information security culture through monitoring
and implementation actions illustrated through a case study”, Computers & Security, Vol. 49,
pp. 162-176.

Information
security
management

521

ICS
25,5

522

Dhillon, G. and Backhouse, J. (2001), “Current directions in information security research: toward socioorganizational perspectives”, Information Systems Journal, Vol. 11 No. 2, pp. 127-153.
Feledi, D., Fenz, S. and Lechner, L. (2013), “Toward web-based information security knowledge
sharing”, Information Security Technical Report, Vol. 17 No. 4, pp. 199-209, doi: 10.1016/j.
istr.2013.03.004.
Gaur, A. (2009), Statistical Methods for Practice and Research, SAGE.
Guo, K.H. (2013), “Security-related behavior in using information systems in the workplace: a review
and synthesis”, Computers & Security, Vol. 32 No. 1, pp. 242-251, available at: http://linkinghub.
elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0167404812001666
Guo, K.H. and Yuan, Y. (2012), “The effects of multilevel sanctions on information security violations: a
mediating model”, Information and Management, Vol. 49 No. 6, pp. 320-326.
Hagen, J.M., Albrechtsen, E. and Hovden, J. (2008), “Implementation and effectiveness of organizational
information security measures”, Information Management & Computer Security, Vol. 16 No. 4,
pp. 377-397.
Hair, J.F., Black, W.C., Babin, B.J. and Anderson, R.E. (Eds) (2010), Multivariate Data Analysis, Pearson.
Harrington, S.J. (1996), “The effect of codes of ethics and personal denial of responsibility on computer
abuse judgments and intentions”, MIS Quarterly, Vol. 20, pp. 257-278.
Harrison, K. and White, G. (2010), “An empirical study on the effectiveness of common security
measures”, Proceedings of 43rd Hawaii International Conference Systems Science, Koloa, HI,
pp. 1-9, available at: http://ieeexplore.ieee.org/lpdocs/epic03/wrapper.htm?arnumber=5428509
(accessed 24 June 2016).
Herath, T. and Rao, H.R. (2009a), “Encouraging information security behaviors in organizations: role of
penalties, pressures and perceived effectiveness”, Decision Support Systems, Vol. 47
No. 2, pp. 154-165, available at: http://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/S0167923609000530
(accessed 13 May 2016).
Herath, T. and Rao, H.G. (2009b), “Protection motivation and deterrence: a framework for security
policy compliance in organisations”, European Journal of Information Systems, Vol. 18 No. 2,
pp. 106-125.
Herbert, C. (2014), More Changes Ahead, ISO 27001: 2005 Information Security Management
Standard, available at: www.isoqsltd.com/ahead-iso-270012005-information-security-managementstandard/ (accessed 17 May 2016).
Hovav, A. and D’Arcy, J. (2012), “Applying an extended model of deterrence across cultures: an
investigation of information systems misuse in the U.S. and South Korea”, Information
Management, Vol. 49 No. 2, pp. 99-110.
Hsu, C.W. (2009), “Frame misalignment: interpreting the implementation of information systems
security certiﬁcation in an organization”, European Journal of Information Systems, Vol. 18
No. 2, pp. 140-150, available at: www.palgrave-journals.com/doiﬁnder/10.1057/ejis.2009.7
(accessed 3 July 2016).
Hu, Q., Hart, P.J. and Cooke, D. (2007), “The role of external and internal inﬂuences on information
systems security: a neo- institutional perspective”, Journal of Strategic Information
Systems, Vol. 16 No. 2, pp. 153-172, available at: http://linkinghub.elsevier.com/retrieve/pii/
S0963868707000212
Iﬁnedo, P. (2012), “Understanding information systems security policy compliance: an integration of the
theory of planned behavior and the protection motivation theory”, Computers & Security, Vol. 31
No. 1, pp. 83-95, doi: 10.1016/j.cose.2011.10.007.
Iﬁnedo, P. and Olsen, D. (2014), “An empirical research on the impacts of organisational decisions’
locus, tasks structure rules, knowledge, and IT function’s value on ERP system success”,
International Journal of Production Research, Vol. 53 No. 8, doi: 10.1080/00207543.2014.991047.
available at: http://faculty.cbu.ca/piﬁnedo/IJPRDR.pdf

Jaeger, J. (2013), “Human error, not hackers, cause most data breaches”, Compliance Week, Vol. 10
No. 110, pp. 56-57.
Jansson, K. and von Solms, R. (2013), “Phishing for phishing awareness”, Behaviour & Information
Technology, Vol. 32 No. 6, pp. 584-593.
Joshi, K. (2005), “Understanding user resistance and acceptance during the implementation of an order
management system: a case study using the equity implementation model”, Journal of
Information Technology Case and Application Research, Vol. 7 No. 1, pp. 6-20.
Kankan-Halli, A., Teo, H.-H., Tan, B.C. and Wei, K.-K. (2003), “An integrative study of information
systems security effectiveness”, International Journal of Information Management, Vol. 23 No. 2,
pp. 139-154.
Kim, H.W. and Pan, S.L. (2006), “Towards a process model of information systems implementation:
the case of customer relationship management (CRM)”, ACM Sigmis Database, Vol. 37 No. 1,
pp. 59-76.
Kotulic, A. and Guynes-Clark, J. (2004), “Why there aren’t more information security research studies”,
Information and Management, Vol. 41 No. 1, pp. 597-607.
Kritzinger, E. and von Solms, S.H. (2010), “Cyber security for home users: a new way of protection
through awareness enforcement”, Computers & Security, Vol. 29 No. 8, pp. 840-847, doi: 10.1016/
j.cose.2010.08.001.
Lai, H.M. and Chen, T.T. (2014), “Knowledge sharing in interest online communities: a comparison of
posters and lurkers”, Computers in Human Behavior, Vol. 35 No. 6, pp. 295-306.
Lee, J. and Lee, Y. (2002), “A holistic model of computer abuse within organizations”, Information
Management & Computer Security, Vol. 10 Nos 2/3, pp. 57-63.
Lee, Y. and Kozar, K.A. (2008), “An empirical investigation of anti-spyware software adoption: a
multitheoretical perspective”, Information Management, Vol. 45 No. 2, pp. 109-119.
Li, H., Zhang, J. and Sarathy, R. (2010), “Understanding compliance with internet use policy from the
perspective of rational choice theory”, Decision Support Systems, Vol. 48 No. 4, pp. 635-645, doi:
10.1016/j.dss.2009.12.005.
Li, J., Li, N., Wang, X.F. and Yu, T. (2009), “Denial of service li attacks and defences in
decentralised trust management”, International Journal of Information Security, Vol. 8
No. 2, pp. 89.
Lim, V.K.G. and Teo, T.S.H. (2005), “Prevalence, perceived seriousness, justiﬁcation and regulation of
cyberloaﬁng in Singapore: an exploratory study”, Information & Management, Vol. 42 No. 8,
pp. 1081-1093.
Loster, P.C. (2005), “Managing e-business risk to mitigate loss”, Financial Executive, Vol. 21 No. 5,
pp. 43-45.
McFadzean, E., Ezingeard, J.-N. and Birchall, D. (2006), “Anchoring information security governance
research: sociological groundings and future directions”, International Journal of Information
Security, Vol. 2 No. 3, pp. 3-48.
Ma, Q., Schmidt, M.B. and Pearson, J.M. (2009), “An integrated framework for information security
management”, Review of Business, Vol. 30 No. 1, pp. 58-69.
Mackie, R. (2013), ISO 27001:2013 – Understanding the New Standard, The Pragmatic Auditor
(accessed 27 June 2016).
Mirkovic, J. and Reiher, P. (2005), “D-WARD: a source-end defense against ﬂooding denial-ofservice attacks”, IEEE Transactions on Dependable and Secure Computing, Vol. 2 No. 3,
pp. 216-232.
Pahnila, S., Siponen, M. and Mahmood, A. (2007), “Employees’ behavior towards is security policy
compliance”, Proceedings of the 40th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences, Los
Alamitos, CA, IEEE Computer Society Press, pp. 156-166.

Information
security
management

523

ICS
25,5

524

Parsons, K., McCormac, A., Butavicius, M., Pattinson, M. and Jerram, C. (2014), “Determining employee
awareness using the human aspects of information security questionnaire (HAIS-Q)”, Computers
& Security, Vol. 42, pp. 165-176.
PricewaterhouseCoopers (2008), “Employee behaviour key to improving information security, new
survey ﬁnds”, 23 June, available at: www.ukmediacentre.pwc.com/content/detail.aspx?
releaseid=2672&newsareaid=2
Puhakainen, P. and Siponen, M. (2010), “Improving employees’ compliance through
information systems security training: an action research study”, MIS Quarterly, Vol. 34
No. 4, pp. 757-778.
Reding, K.F., Sobel, P.J., Anderson, U.L., Head, M.J., Ramamoorti, S., Salamasick, M. and
Riddle, C. (2013), Internal Auditing: Assurance & Advisory Services, The IIA Research
Foundation.
Richardson, R. (2011), 15th Annual 2010/2011 Computer Crime and Security Survey, Computer
Security Institute, New York, NY.
Rubenstein, S. and Francis, T. (2008), “Are your medical records at risk?”, Wall Street Journal, Vol. 251
No. 100, pp. D1-D2.
Safa, N.S. and Ismail, M.A. (2013), “A customer loyalty formation model in electronic commerce”,
Economic Modelling, Vol. 35, pp. 559-564, doi: 10.1016/j.econmod.2013.08.011.d.
Safa, N.S., Sookhak, M., Von Solms, R., Furnell, S., Ghani, N.A. and Herawan, T. (2015), “Information
security conscious care behaviour formation in organizations”, Computers & Security, Vol. 53,
pp. 65-78, doi: 10.1016/j.cose.2015.05.012.
Schultz, E.E., Proctor, R.W., Lien, M.-C. and Salvendy, G. (2001), “Usability and security an appraisal of
usability issues in information security methods”, Computers & Security, Vol. 20 No. 7,
pp. 620-634.
Schumacker, R.E. and Lomax, R.G. (2010), A Beginner’s Guide to Structural Equation Modeling, 3rd ed.,
Taylor & Francis Group, New York, NY.
Seo, D., Lee, H. and Perrig, A. (2013), “APFS: adaptive probabilistic ﬁlter scheduling against distributed
denial-of-service attacks”, Computers & Security, Vol. 39, pp. 366-385.
Shibchurn, J. and Yan, X. (2015), “Information disclosure on social networking sites: an intrinsicextrinsic motivation perspective”, Computers in Human Behavior, Vol. 44, pp. 103-117, doi:
10.1016/j.chb.2014.10.059.
Shropshire, J., Warkentin, M. and Sharma, S. (2015), “Personality, attitudes, and intentions: predicting
initial adoption of information security behavior”, Computer & Security, Vol. 49, pp. 177-191.
Siau, K.F., Nah, F.-H. and Teng, L. (2002), “Acceptable internet use policy”, CACM, Vol. 45, pp. 75-79.
Simmonds, A., Sandilands, P. and Ekert, L.V. (2004), “An ontology for network security attacks”, in
Manandhar, S., Austin, J., Desai, U., Oyanagi, Y. and Talukder, A. (Eds), Applied Computing,
Springer, Berlin, pp. 317-323.
Singh, A.N., Picot, A., Kranz, J., Gupta, M.P. and Ojha, A. (2013), “Information security management
(ISM) practices: lessons from select cases from India and Germany”, Global Journal of Flexible
Systems Management, Vol. 14 No. 4, pp. 225-239.
Siponen, M.T. (2005), “An analysis of the traditional information security approaches:
implications for research and practice”, European Journal of Information Systems,
Vol. 14 No. 3, pp. 303-315.
Siponen, M. and Vartiainen, T. (2004), “Unauthorized copying of software and levels of moral
development: a literature analysis and its implications for research and practice”, Information
Systems Journal, Vol. 14 No. 4, pp. 387-407.
Siponen, M., Mahmood, M.A. and Pahnila, S. (2014), “Employees’ adherence to information
security policies: an exploratory ﬁeld study”, Information & Management, Vol. 51 No. 2,
pp. 217-224.

Smith, S., Winchester, D., Bunker, D. and Jamieson, R. (2010), “Circuits of power: a study of mandated
compliance to an information systems security de jure standard in a government organization”,
MIS Quarterly, Vol. 34 No. 3, pp. 463-486.
Son, J.-Y. (2011), “Out of fear or desire? toward a better understanding of employees’ motivation to
follow information security policies”, Information Management, Vol. 48 No. 7, pp. 296-302.
Soo Hoo, K.J. (2000), “How much is enough: a risk management approach to computer
security”, working paper, Center for International Security and Cooperation, Stanford
University, available at: http://cisac.stanford.edu/publications/how_much_is_enough__a_
riskmanagement_approach_to_computer_security/.
Straub, D.W. and Nance, W.D. (1990), “Discovering and disciplining computer abuse in organizations: a
ﬁeld study”, MIS Quarterly, Vol. 14 No. 1, pp. 45-60.
Sunyaev, A., Kaletsch, A., Mauro, C. and Krcmar, H. (2009), “Security analysis of the German electronic
health card’s peripheral parts”, ICEIS – Proceedings of the 11th International Conference on
Enterprise Information Systems, ISAS, pp. 19-26.
Trcek, D., Trobec, R., Pavesic, N. and Tasic, J.F. (2007), “Information systems security and human
behaviour”, Behaviour & Information Technology, Vol. 26 No. 2, pp. 113-118.
Vance, A., Lowry, P.B. and Eggett, D. (2013), “Using accountability to reduce access policy
violations in information systems”, Journal of Management Information Systems, Vol. 29
No. 4, pp. 263-290.
Vivo, M.D., Vivo, G.O.D. and Isern, G. (1998), “Internet security attacks at the basic levels”, ACM
SIGOPS - Operating Systems Review, Vol. 32, pp. 4-15.
Wang, H., Jin, C. and Shin, K.G. (2007), “Defense against spoofed IP trafﬁc using hop-count ﬁltering”,
IEEE/ACM Transactions on Networking, Vol. 15 No. 1, pp. 40-53.
Webb, J., Ahmad, A., Maynard, S.B. and Shanks, G. (2014), “A situation awareness model for
information security risk management”, Computers & Security, Vol. 44, pp. 1-15, doi: 10.1016/j.
cose.2014.04.005.
Werlinger, R., Hawkey, K. and Beznosov, K. (2009), “An integrated view of human, organizational, and
technological challenges of IT security management”, Information Management &
Computer Security, Vol. 17 No. 1, pp. 4-19, available at: www.emeraldinsight.com/10.1108/
09685220910944722 (accessed 13 June 2016).
Werlinger, R., Hawkey, K., Botta, D. and Beznosov, K. (2009), “Security practitioners in context:
their activities and interactions with other stakeholders within organizations”,
International Journal of Human-Computer Studies, Vol. 67 No. 7, pp. 584-606, doi: 10.1016/j.
ijhcs.2009.03.002.
Willison, R. (2006), “Understanding the perpetration of employee computer crime in the organisational
context”, Information and Organization, Vol. 16 No. 4, pp. 304-324.
Witherspoon, C.L., Bergner, J., Cockrell, C. and Stone, D.N. (2013), “Antecedents of organizational
knowledge sharing: a meta-analysis and critique”, Journal of Knowledge Management, Vol. 17
No. 2, pp. 250-277, doi: 10.1108/13673271311315204.
Wright, B.R.E., Caspi, A., Mofﬁtt, T.E. and Paternoster, R. (2004), “Does the perceived risk of
punishment deter criminally prone individuals? Rational choice, self-control, and crime”, Journal
of Research in Crime and Delinquency, Vol. 41 No. 2, pp. 180-213.
Yeniman, Y., Ebru Akalp, G., Aytac, S. and Bayram, N. (2011), “Factors inﬂuencing
information security management in small-and medium-sized enterprises: a case study
from turkey”, International Journal of Information Management, Vol. 31 No. 4,
pp. 360-365.
Zhang, J., Reithel, B.J. and Li, H. (2009), “Impact of perceived technical protection on
security behaviors”, Information Management & Computer Security, Vol. 17 No. 4,
pp. 330-340.

Information
security
management

525

ICS
25,5

526

Further reading
Breslin, P. (2014), Security Updates: The Upcoming Revision of ISO/IEC 27001, DNV Business
Assurance (accessed 27 January 2015).
Hsu, C.W., Lee, J.-N. and Straub, D.W. (2012), “Institutional inﬂuences on information systems security
innovations”, Information Systems Research, Vol. 23 No. 3, pp. 918-939, available at: http://isr.
journal.informs.org/cgi/doi/10.1287/isre.1110.0393
McFadzean, E., Ezingeard, J.-N. and Birchall, D. (2011), “Information assurance and corporate strategy:
a Delphi study of choices, challenges, and developments for the future”, Information Systems
Management, Vol. 28 No. 2, pp. 102-129, doi: 10.1080/10580530.2011.562127.available at: www.
tandfonline.com/doi/abs/ (accessed 15 June 2016).

Appendix

Information
security
management

527

ICS
25,5

528

Information
security
management

529

ICS
25,5

530

Information
security
management

531

ICS
25,5

532

Information
security
management

533

ICS
25,5

534

