The current issue and full text archive of this journal is available on Emerald Insight at:
www.emeraldinsight.com/1741-0398.htm

Usage control architecture
options for data sovereignty
in business ecosystems
Johannes Zrenner

Data
sovereignty
in business
ecosystems
477

Graduate School of Logistics, TU Dortmund University, Dortmund, Germany

Frederik Oliver Möller
Chair for Industrial Information Management,
TU Dortmund University, Dortmund, Germany

Received 9 March 2018
Revised 9 February 2019
Accepted 26 February 2019

Christian Jung and Andreas Eitel
Fraunhofer IESE, Kaiserslautern, Germany, and

Boris Otto
Chair for Industrial Information Management,
TU Dortmund University, Dortmund, Germany and
Fraunhofer ISST, Dortmund, Germany
Abstract
Purpose – Current business challenges force companies to exchange critical and sensitive data. The data
provider pays great attention to the usage of their data and wants to control it by policies. The purpose of this
paper is to develop usage control architecture options to enable data sovereignty in business ecosystems.
Design/methodology/approach – The architecture options are developed following the design science
research process. Based on requirements from an automotive use case, the authors develop architecture
options. The different architecture options are demonstrated and evaluated based on the case study with
practitioners from the automotive industry.
Findings – This paper introduces different architecture options for implementing usage control (UC). The
proposed architecture options represent solutions for UC in business ecosystems. The comparison of the
architecture options shows the respective advantages and disadvantages for data provider and data consumer.
Research limitations/implications – In this work, the authors address only one case stemming from the
German automotive sector.
Practical implications – Technical enforcement of data providers policies instead of relying on trust to
support collaborative data exchange between companies.
Originality/value – This research is among the first to introduce architecture options that provide a
technical concept for the implementation of data sovereignty in business ecosystems using UC. Consequently,
it supports the decision process for the technical implementation of data sovereignty.
Keywords Architecture, Business ecosystem, Design science research, Data sovereignty, Usage control
Paper type Research paper

1. Introduction
The on-going digitization process of the industrial sectors brings with it disruptive
developments for how enterprises conduct business. The explosion of the volume of
data influences business models at their core. In the digital world, enterprises need to
build business ecosystems to be able to share data to provide products and services
(Acatech et al., 2014). A central issue with data is the simplicity with which they are
copied or shared. For example, in the music industry, songs in MP3 format can easily be
This research was supported by the Excellence Center for Logistics and IT funded by the
Fraunhofer-Gesellschaft and the Ministry of Culture and Science of the German State of North
Rhine-Westphalia and by the International Data Spaces (IDS) initiative funded by the German Ministry
for Education and Research.

Journal of Enterprise Information
Management
Vol. 32 No. 3, 2019
pp. 477-495
© Emerald Publishing Limited
1741-0398
DOI 10.1108/JEIM-03-2018-0058

JEIM
32,3

478

shared between people without taking into consideration the owner’s copyrights
(Ma, 2017). Business will grow ever more codependent and form digital business
ecosystems. Therefore, the questions about the capabilities of being self-determined
concerning its data will become more critical for businesses. The required capabilities
are summarized under the term data sovereignty (Otto et al., 2017). Business partners
do not only need to specify access rights toward shared data but also need to set
usage control (UC) policies, which specify how third parties can use their data
(Karafili and Lupu, 2017).
Sharing data between enterprises is a complex issue entangled with multiple
requirements, which need to be molded into policies. The design of well-formulated data
usage policies is of paramount importance for beneficial cooperation in a business
ecosystem. For example, it is not sufficient to specify who can access which data, but it is
also necessary to specify for what amount of time a third party can access and utilize the
data (Pearson and Casassa-Mont, 2011).
Despite the existing architecture for decentral search from Lablans et al. (2015) and the
encryption-based solution for federated clouds from Esposito et al. (2016), there is no
technical concept on how to implement data sovereignty. So far no research considers
business ecosystems and UC in the context of data sovereignty. However, as business
ecosystems become ever more relevant, the way of implementing data sovereignty by UC
needs to be addressed.
The authors present a conceptual framework, i.e., architecture options, for the realization
of UC policies between an original equipment manufacturer (OEM) and a Tier-1 supplier
(from now on referred to as “supplier”) in the German automotive industry to enforce data
sovereignty. The focus on the automotive industry is deliberately chosen because it is the
largest and highly developed branch of industry in Germany, which has to implement a
closer collaboration of the participating companies in order to remain competitive (Henke
and Kuhn, 2017).
The work is based on the “Collaborative Supply Chain Risk Management” (CSCRM) use
case from the industrial data space (IDS). The IDS is an initiative to foster and implement
data sovereignty in business ecosystems. The IDS delivers a reference architecture giving a
conceptual representation for inter-organizational data exchange entangled with policies
and rules (Otto et al., 2018).
Through analysis of literature and assertion of problems in the field, the authors specify
policies, which the architecture options need to represent and to enforce. In this analysis, the
authors take into account the exchange of sensitive data between the two parties. For this,
various levels of security and implementations give possible architecture options.
The authors address the following research questions (RQ):
RQ1. What are requirements for data sovereignty and UC policies in the use case
CSCRM?
RQ2. What architecture options exist to enable UC and how can they be compared
regarding practical implementation?
The authors investigate the RQs through rigorous literature review and a case study
with practitioners, which ensures scientific rigor on one hand and relevancy for the field
on the other.
The paper is structured as follows: Section 2 introduces the relevant terminologies and
related concepts in the field of UC. In Section 3 the authors present their research design,
which draws from design science research (DSR), case study research and workshops.
Section 4 introduces requirements for data sovereignty and UC. Following, the authors
present their architecture options for UC implementation in Section 5. Building on that,
Section 6 demonstrates and evaluates the architecture options.

2. Background and related work
2.1 Approach for literature review
The following section presents the state of the art of business ecosystems, data sovereignty
and concepts for data policy enforcement. The review follows established guidelines
outlining the form of the literature review. Thus, the authors collected data from established
scientific databases like Scopus, IEEE and Jstor. Both conference proceedings as well as
journals are taken into consideration, as well as corresponding referenced documents
(backward search) and citing documents (forward search) (Webster and Watson, 2002). The
topics above define the search terms, which include the keywords “business ecosystem,”
“data sovereignty,” “data policy enforcement,” “usage control” and “data usage.” The search
is conducted in abstracts, titles and keywords (Vom Brocke et al., 2015).
2.2 Business ecosystem
A business ecosystems consist of a multitude of actors, which share a common fate in an
economic network (Moore, 2006). Actors in the business ecosystem are usually
organizations, e.g., universities, large corporations or small firms. Cooperation, as well as
competition, are both inherent characteristics of the business ecosystems (Peltoniemi and
Vuori, 2004). Some authors explicitly mention digital ecosystems and characterize it as
being a dynamic open community without centralized control or a rigid hierarchy (Boley
and Chang, 2007; Chang and West, 2006). Therefore, the participants of an ecosystem are
connected through a peer-to-peer network (Briscoe and Marinos, 2009). Nachira (2002)
introduces digital business ecosystems with a strong emphasis on pervasive software to
support business services and facilitate self-organizing behavior. For the remainder of the
paper, the authors focus on the definition given by Moore and adopt the terminology
business ecosystem.
2.3 Data sovereignty
Data sovereignty is a young field of scientific research and lacks a universal definition
(Polatin-Reuben and Wright, 2014). Some researchers focus their research on data
sovereignty in specific domains. These are national data sovereignty (Amoore, 2018;
Hippelainen et al., 2017; Nugraha et al., 2015; Esposito et al., 2016; Polatin-Reuben and
Wright, 2014; Irion, 2012; Peterson et al., 2011), medical data (Lablans et al., 2015) and data
sovereignty in cloud architecture options (Choo, 2014; Esposito et al., 2016; Forrester, 2015).
In the context of national jurisdiction, data sovereignty refers to data being subject to the
local law (Polatin-Reuben and Wright, 2014; Hippelainen et al., 2017). Further, it refers to the
government having full authority over virtual public data (Irion, 2012) and if it is the law of
the land, must not leave its borders (Amoore, 2018). Peterson argues that data sovereignty
refers to data being confined to the borders of the respective country (Peterson et al., 2011).
A related research field is data residency, which addresses “[…] the location of data and
metadata, the movement of (meta)data across geographies and jurisdictions, and the
protection of that (meta)data […]” (Object Management Group, 2017). In their discussion
paper, the authors state potential pitfalls due to different economic policies, legislation and
regulations of various countries and states besides implementation challenges.
Lablans et al. (2015) provide architecture for searching information in distributed
databases. Their goal is to exchange data between medical facilities without violating
one’s data sovereignty. While they do not give an explicit definition, it is evident that
they intend to regulate usage as well as access of data, i.e., to give the data owner a high
level of control. Forrester conducted a survey investigating which approaches to manage
data sovereignty are already in use by practitioners and which are still in planning
(Forrester, 2015).

Data
sovereignty
in business
ecosystems
479

JEIM
32,3

480

Otto et al. (2017) give a general definition of data sovereignty and state that data
sovereignty can be defined as “a natural person’s or corporate entity’s capability of being
entirely self-determined with regard to its data”. The authors adopt the definition given by
Otto et al. for the remainder of this paper.
Some architecture concepts for data sovereignty exist in the literature. For example the
concept for decentral search from Lablans et al. (2015) and the encryption-based solution for
federated clouds from Esposito et al. (2016). Yet, there is no technical concept on how to
implement data sovereignty, especially not in a business ecosystem. It thus remains a need
to specify architecture options for data sovereignty in a business ecosystem.
2.4 Concepts for data policy enforcement
Different concepts for data policy enforcement try to tackle security issues given by the
intangible nature of digital content. The authors present digital rights management
(DRM) as a concept for distributing digital content through enforcing digital licenses, data
leakage prevention (DLP) as a concept to prevent leakage of sensitive information and
access control (AC). Based on that the authors introduce UC and its relationship toward
DRM and DLP (see Table I).
UC describes rules for usage of data between the provider of the data and the customer.
Four parties can determine the rules: these are data owner, data provider, government and a
previous owner (Pretschner et al., 2006). Consumer-side mechanism enforces the previously
negotiated terms of usage (Pretschner et al., 2008). UC is a concept summarizing and
extending the scope of different approaches to data policy enforcement, like AC, DRM and
trust management (Park and Sandhu, 2002). Park et al., contextualize UC with DRM, AC and
trust management. While the previously mentioned approaches focus on specific aspects
(privacy protection, intellectual property rights protection, sensitive information protection)
UC takes a comprehensive approach. Their work further produced the UCONABC Model
conceptualizing UC into a model consisting of eight core components, namely,
authorizations, objects, conditions, obligations, subjects, rights, object attributes and
usage decision (Park and Sandhu, 2004).
Contrary to traditional AC, UC does not stop at merely regulating access but also
controls future usage of data by adding restrictions ( Jung et al., 2014; Kelbert and
Pretschner, 2012; Pretschner et al., 2008). In other words, AC handles the rights to acquire
data and UC specifies how the recipient may utilize the date (Bussard et al., 2010). That
relates to UC incorporating elements of DRM (Huang et al., 2013). If UC is applied onto a
distributed system, i.e., a network of actors (e.g. an information system or processing device)
then it is defined as distributed UC (Pretschner et al., 2006).
Some approaches for UC exist in the literature. Gheorghe et al. (2010) provide the
enterprise service bus (ESB) model. Their approach intersects between different services in
Description

Table I.
Concepts for data
policy enforcement

DRM Management of usage of digital content
through digital licenses
DLP Proactive approach to prevent leakage
of sensitive data
AC Specifies conditions under which a
party can access data
UC Combines DRM, DLP, and AC. Thus,
UC provides rules for accessing and
using data in addition to specifying
ownership

Literature
Frattolillo (2017), Lin et al. (2005), Ma (2017), Liu et al. (2003),
Stamp (2003), Elshazly et al. (2017)
Alneyadi et al. (2016), Katz et al. (2014), Wu et al. (2011),
Stamati-Koromina et al. (2012)
Sandhu and Samarati (1994), Sandhu (1993), Goyal et al.
(2006), Kalam et al. (2003)
Jung et al. (2014), Kumari and Pretschner (2012), Kelbert and
Pretschner (2012), Bussard et al. (2010), Gheorghe et al.
(2010), Pretschner et al. (2008), Pretschner et al. (2006),
Sandhu and Park (2003), Park and Sandhu (2002)

a service-oriented architecture (SOA) option. The enforcement process of the ESB consists of
three parts, namely interceptor (receives a message), decision maker (produces a verdict
based on policy) and the action performer (producing the message based on the decision
maker) (Gheorghe et al., 2010).
Huang et al. (2013) present an approach for trusted UC of digital multimedia content
based on cloud technology. Their framework includes a cloud security server, which
manages security strategies and UC policies.
Based on the literature review, the authors identify the gap in research as follows. While
some research takes into account aspects of business ecosystems, UC and data sovereignty,
there is a lack of a comprehensive view of the three deeply interlaced contexts. As
ecosystems and digital business solutions become ever more relevant, the question of how
data sovereignty is realized in inter-organizational conduct needs to be answered. In this
paper, the authors propose architectural options to implement data sovereignty through
enforcing UC policies in business ecosystems.

Data
sovereignty
in business
ecosystems
481

3. Research design
3.1 Case setting and description
The research in this paper develops conceptual architecture options for UC applications in
the automotive, industrial context. It bases on the “CSCRM” use case stemming from the IDS
consortium. The use case describes a project spanning from March 2017 up to January 2018
thematizing the automated exchange of sensitive data between an OEM and a supplier from
the German automotive sector. Throughout the research effort, the authors conducted four
workshops representing distinct milestones (see Figure 1).
The companies use IDS connectors, which are standardized interfaces for receiving,
sending and transforming data sets for communication. They transmit the data from the
connector to the target system (e.g. risk management system or supplier management system).
Besides the actual data, data sets consist of metadata, which describes the nature of the data
and the related usage policies (Otto et al., 2017). Figure 2 shows the nature of the relationship
between the OEM and the supplier as well as the IT-infrastructure enabling data exchange.
3.2 Case study design
Methodologically, the present paper reports on a single-case study. One can distinguish
between case studies covering a single case, i.e., single-case studies and those covering
Workshop D

Workshop B
Location
Participants

Stuttgart (Germany)

Location

OEM (3), Supplier (4)

Participants

Stuttgart (Germany)
OEM (2), Supplier (3), Fraunhofer (1)

Roles

Logistics, Risk Management, EDI

Roles

Logistics, Risk Management, IT, IDS Architect

Focus

Requirements Data Sovereignty
and Usage Control

Focus

Evaluation of Usage Control Architecture options,
Technical demonstration

March 2017
January 2018
Workshop C

Workshop A
Location

Stuttgart (Germany)

Location

Ingolstadt (Germany)
OEM (9), Supplier (2)

Participants

OEM (6), Supplier (3), Fraunhofer (1)

Participants

Roles

Logistics, Risk Management, EDI, IT,
IDS Architect

Roles

Logistics, Risk Management, EDI,
IT, IDS Architect

Focus

Kick-Off

Focus

Requirements Usage Control

Implementation
Phase

Figure 1.
Timeline of
workshops conducted
in the span of the
research effort

JEIM
32,3

Tier-1 Supplier

Supplier Management DB
Deletion after 14 days

Risk
Management
System

482

IDS
Connector

Data
• Risk type and location
• Affected parts and subsuppliers
• Inventory range
• Contact person

Policies

Application

Database

Figure 2.
IDS use case
"CSCRM"

Original Equipment
Manufacturer

Policies

IDS
Connector

Supplier
Management
System

Application

Policies

Data
• Inventory range
• Part demand
• Contact Person

Database

Policies
Risk Management DB
Deletion after 3 days

multiple cases, i.e. multiple-case studies (Gustafsson, 2017; Yin, 2008). Generally speaking,
multiple-case studies provide a more fruitful basis for generalizing practical findings and
abstracting scientific knowledge. However, the literature provides ample reasoning for
focusing one’s attention on a single case. Reasons for this being the opportunity to study a
complex phenomenon in-depth and with greater focus as opposed to multiple cases (Gerring,
2004). As per the large-scale research effort situated in the German automotive industry and
the thematization of a yet emerging and inherently complex field of research, the authors’
reason that the nature of the given case is “extreme” and thus following a single-case strategy
is not only suitable but purposeful (Gerring, 2006). In the following, the authors pursue
reasoning based on logical argument, as well as an abstraction ( Johansson, 2007). The case
describes data exchange in the bilateral relationship between an OEM and a supplier, which,
as a basic mode of inter-organizational networking, is common and a “representative case”
across the automotive industry (Yin, 2008). In line with the recommendations of Yin and the
encompassing warning of solely focusing on the representational character of the use case, it
is the goal of the authors to produce abstracted design knowledge, i.e., theoretical knowledge
in the form of data architecture options in business ecosystems (Yin, 2008). Thus, the present
work entails high reusability through lifting practical instance problems into the realm of
abstracted solutions and hence enhances applicability on further instance problems (Lee et al.,
2011). For the reasons above, the authors argue that following a single-case study research
strategy is appropriate and goal oriented.
3.3 Design science research
The authors use the DSR paradigm as proposed by Hevner et al. (2004) to develop the
architecture options. DSR has gained increasing attention in the information systems
research community and is a suitable paradigm for the development of novel IT-artifacts
(Carlsson et al., 2011). Peffers et al. provide the design science research methodology (DSRM)
which offers a procedural model outlining the individual steps necessary toward generating
an IT-artifact (Carlsson et al., 2011). The procedural model consists of the following six
steps, namely, identify problem and motivation, define objectives of a solution, design and
development, demonstration, evaluation and communication (Peffers et al., 2007). Typical
artifacts, i.e., deliverables produced by DSR research projects are constructs, models,
methods and instantiations (March and Smith, 1995). The proposed architecture options fall
into the second category of DSR contribution types provided by Hevner and Gregor, as they
classify as nascent design theory (Gregor and Hevner, 2013).

The authors follow the guidelines provided by Peffers et al. (2007) and thus begin with
the first step identify problem and motivation. The motivation for the research conducted in
this paper stems from input from the field as well as the literature. As presented in Section 2,
there is a lack of a unified understanding of data sovereignty and a lack of data usage
policies. The authors conducted three workshops to assert input regarding requirements of
UC and data sovereignty. Figure 1 gives an overview of the conducted workshops. The
design phase for the artifact predominantly bases on this mode data collection in
workshops, focus groups and expert interviews conducted throughout the project duration.
Focus groups provided the authors with the necessary tools to explore the mostly
undiscovered scientific domain of data sovereignty and practice-oriented UC policies in the
German automotive industry and to synthesize requirements (Rabiee, 2004; Tremblay et al.,
2010). Figure 3 gives an overview of each step taken. DSR offers various entry points for
research projects. In the present case, the entry point is initiated through a problem, i.e., the
lack of formal policies for inter-organizational data usage and their enforcement.
Second, the scope of this paper includes developing architecture options including the
requirements and the resulting policies. The authors derive requirements for the
architecture options by conducting interviews with experts from the automotive sector.
Section 4 identifies the use case requirements for data sovereignty and UC policies.
Third, the authors develop the architecture options. Information systems architecture is a
typical artifact in information systems research (Frank, 2000). The terminology initially
sprung from the construction environment and describes complex structures being the sum of
many individual parts (Ahlemann et al., 2012). In IS research, architecture represents a model
of an organizational information system, which describes rules, relationships and interfaces
between individual components to cope with the ever-rising complexity of information
systems (Leist and Zellner, 2006; Zachman, 1999). Possible architecture options on how to
technically enforce the policies are developed in Section 5 and evaluated in Section 6.
Fourth, through the application of the architectural options onto an automotive,
industrial use case, the authors show the feasibility and industrial applicability of the
solutions. Using a single case yields the potential for intensive analysis of the object
of observation (Gerring, 2004), which, e.g., can be a person or a system (Thomas, 2011).

Identify Problem
and Motivation

Define Objectives
of a Solution

Growing
importance of Data
Sovereignty in
Business
Ecosystems

Using Usage
Control for the
development of
conceptual
architecture options
for implementing
Data Sovereignty in
Business
Ecosystems

Lack of concepts
for technical
implementation of
Data Sovereignty

Design and
Development
In the context of
the CSCRM use
case, the
development of
Data Sovereignty
and Usage Control
requirements in
workshops
Derivation of
corresponding
architecture options
based on them

Demonstration
Demonstration of
the results
according to
characteristics of
the specific
CSCRM use case

Evaluation
Focus groups with
practitioners
conducted in the
workshops provide
validation for the
architecture
options

Data
sovereignty
in business
ecosystems
483

Communication
Publication of the
study results

Legend
ProblemCentered
Initiation

ObjectiveCentered
Solution

Source: Peffers et al. (2007)

Design and
Development
Centered
Initiation

Client/
Context
Initiated

= Point of entry for research
CSCRM = Collaborative Supply Chain Risk
Management

Figure 3.
DSR Methodology as
applied in the present
research

JEIM
32,3

484

While there is still much discussion in the literature about limitations of single-case studies
regarding generalizability and compatibility (Flyvbjerg, 2006), it enables the development of
complex solutions (see Section 3.2) (Eisenhardt and Graebner, 2007).
The authors follow March and Smith, who propose that evaluate results from designoriented research through the development of suited criteria and the artifacts performance
(March and Smith, 1995). Thus the authors analyze the suitability of the architecture in
context to the a priori defined requirements (Frank, 2000). Additionally, the authors collect
feedback focus groups of experts in the automotive sector. Figure 1 gives a timeline of all
workshops conducted in the research effort. Each workshop represents a milestone in the
project duration.
4. Requirements for data sovereignty and usage control policies
In this section, the authors analyze existing literature for data sovereignty and usage control
policies requirements. Furthermore, they conduct a case study to survey requirements from
the industry.
4.1 Requirements for data sovereignty
In the literature, the requirements for data sovereignty focus on checking and verifying the
geolocation of the data because of possible legal issues in some countries (e.g. Esposito et al.,
2016; Amoore, 2018; Polatin-Reuben and Wright, 2014). Peterson et al. (2011) specify that
requirement in “proofing the location of the server, where the data is stored” and “proofing if
the data is stored at that server.” Hippelainen et al. (2017) describe server location detection
requirements from the data protection legislation, commercial constraints, cloud provider,
cloud customer, extern auditor and cheating pattern perspective.
Table II shows the data sovereignty requirements for the IDS use case CSCRM which
have been elicited during the workshops from practitioners.
4.2 Requirements for usage control policies
In general, UC policies define requirements on how data consumers are allowed to use the
data (Pretschner et al., 2006). There are two different types of UC requirements, namely
provisions and obligations. Provisions impose AC requirements, for example, through
specifying a necessary user role such as “manager” (Hilty et al., 2005). Obligations represent
Requirements
Simple definition and allocation of
policies
Transparent processes

Description

The definition and enforcement of usage control policies have to be
able with simple programming or customizing
The usage control processes have to be transparent and
comprehensible to the users
Short loading times
The loading time for the received data within the application has to
be short (less than 3 seconds)
Parallel processing of many requests Many users should be able to access the received data at the same time
Scalability
Data sovereignty needs to be scalable to realize the required usage
control policies
Affordable for small- and mediumSMEs have to be able to afford the necessary policy enforcement
sized enterprises (SMEs)
components for data sovereignty
Compatibility with all connectors
Data sovereignty has to work even if data provider and data
from other companies
consumer have connectors with different characteristics (e.g.
Table II.
manufacturer, release, size)
Requirements for data
sovereignty from IDS Manual intervention for data provider The data provider can change the usage control policies manually
possible
because of special conditions (e.g. disaster)
use case “CSCRM”

future requirements that the data customer is bound to fulfill. Examples of obligations are
“Data must not be stored more than 20 days” or “data must not be distributed” (Pretschner
et al., 2006). Obligations are classified according to two dimensions. If the obligation includes
a fixed time interval or an infinitely valid condition, it is part of the dimension time. The
second dimension is “observability” and covers the possibility to observe the violation of an
obligation (Hilty et al., 2005).
Requirements are enforced if the respective mechanisms are employed (Pretschner et al.,
2006). Mechanisms are installed on the data customer side and consist of a trigger event and
an action (Pretschner et al., 2008). A policy consists of one or more requirements. If at least
one requirement is violated, then the policy agreement is breached (Pretschner et al., 2006).
UC policies differentiate into specification-level policies (SLPs) and implementation-level
policies (ILPs) (Rudolph et al., 2016). SLPs describe policies through human-readable natural
language and thus lack a common formalism. Contrary, the ILPs formalize SLPs and make
them processable by a machine, i.e., machine-readable. Kumari and Pretschner (2012)
describe the different enforcement possibilities for the requirement “picture must not be
copied without notification.” Similar examples can be drawn for a file delete-operation. For
instance, the deletion of a file can mean: moving the file to the trash bin (e.g. Windows
operating system), removing the reference of the file from the file system table, or
overwriting the file location on the hard disk. SLP usually are imprecise, and thus the
enforcement of policies is ambiguous. Hence, an SLP can be expressed through a
combination of different ILPs achieving the same requirement. Rudolph et al. (2014) describe
a method to support the elicitation of security policy requirements and transform them into
security policy templates.
For identifying the UC policies for the IDS use case CSCRM the authors follow the
security policy elicitation method from Rudolph et al. (2014). With all relevant stakeholders
(see Section 3), SLP in natural language is developed and listed in Table III following the
classification of Hilty et al. (2005). The authors decided to drop the second dimension of
obligation (“observability”) because non-observable events can be transferred to observable

Data
sovereignty
in business
ecosystems
485

Obligations
Provisions

Fixed time
interval

Eternally valid

OEM as It is prohibited that the supplier
data
imports the received data in
provider another system than “Supply
Chain Risk Database”
It is prohibited that the supplier
gives data access to employees
with none of the roles “risk
manager,” “team leader logistics”
or “sales representative for the
affected parts”

It is obligatory
that the
supplier deletes
the received
data after three
days

It is prohibited that the
supplier forwards the received
data to other companies
It is prohibited that the
supplier uses the received data
for other purposes than risk
and bottleneck management
It is prohibited that the
supplier uses the received data
to the detriment of the OEM

Supplier It is prohibited that the OEM
as data imports the received data in
provider another system than “Supplier
Management Database”
It is prohibited that the OEM
gives data access to employees
with none of the roles “risk
manager,” “dispatcher for the
affected parts” or “purchaser for
the affected parts”

It is obligatory
that the OEM
deletes the
received data
after 14 days

It is prohibited that the OEM
forwards the received data to
other companies
It is prohibited that the OEM
uses the received data for
other purposes than risk and
bottleneck management
It is prohibited that the OEM
uses the received data to the
detriment of the supplier

Supporting
literature
Pearson and
Casassa-Mont
(2011),
Gheorghe
et al. (2010),
Hilty et al.
(2005)

Table III.
Usage control policies
from the IDS use case
“CSCRM”

JEIM
32,3

486

ones (Hilty et al., 2005). The authors formulate policies according to the Semantics of
Business Vocabulary and Business Rules (SBVR) from the Object Management Group
(Object Management Group, 2016).
5. Usage control architecture options in business ecosystems
The following section comprises an introduction to the used policy enforcement framework
and the different architecture options to implement data sovereignty by using this framework.
5.1 Policy enforcement framework
There are different approaches on how to cope with data UC and policy enforcement in general
(see Section 2.4). Many policy enforcement solutions are based on the language and actors in
the domain of XACML (eXtensible Access Control Markup Language), which represents an
XML schema for authorization policies (OASIS, 2013). The main components and data flow in
the XACML reference architecture are described below and depicted in Figure 4.
Policy administration point writes machine-readable policies and make them available to the
PDP. With these policies, security administrators can specify their data sovereignty demands.
The policy enforcement point (PEP) receives data flow requests and demands a decision
from the PDP how to proceed with the request. Depending on this decision, the PEP allows
or denies the data flow.
The policy decision point (PDP) determines the decision for the data access request based on
the installed policies. Policy evaluation may require additional information provided by a policy
information point (PIP). Information returned by a PIP, which is not present in the request
itself, may range from supplements from external services to data provided by a database.
The policy enforcement frameworks Integrated Distributed Data Usage Control
Enforcement (IND²UCE) uses the XACML approach shown in Figure 4, not only to cope
with authorization but also with UC, which is essential for implementing data sovereignty.
Therefore, IND²UCE made changes to the architecture, the responsibility, and functionality
of components (Steinebach et al., 2016). For example, the PEPs in the IND²UCE framework
allows the modification of data in transit and therefore extend the PDP decision. Also,
IND²UCE allows that a decision can be bound to the successful execution of a specified
action, such as the writing of a permanent log entry. In this case, the PDP triggers the
execution of specified actions at a policy execution point (PXP). Only after successful
execution has been acknowledged, the PDP will return the appropriate decision to the PEP;
otherwise, a fallback action, if specified, will be performed.
The authors decided for IND²UCE due to its mature state, its applicability to cope with
the identified data sovereignty challenges and because it is one of the UC technologies used
Data request

Data
PEP

Request
PIP

Information

Decision

PDP
Policies

Figure 4.
Simplified XACML
architecture

PAP

Source: OASIS (2013)

in the IDS. The policy framework provides theoretical concepts and technological
components for implementing data UC. Besides, it is actively researched in former and
current research projects, and its applicability has been shown in different prototypical
implementations. For more information about IND²UCE refer to (Steinebach et al., 2016).
The following will focus on a minimal set of IND²UCE components to enforce the usage
policies: the PDP for decision making, the PEP for intercepting data flows and the PXP for
executing actions at the target system or platform.
5.2 Architecture options
The IDS use case “CSCRM” consists of two-sided data exchange between OEM and supplier.
The authors describe the developed architecture options based on the one-way data
exchange where the data store and policy enforcement components are located at the
supplier (data consumer) side. The other option, when the OEM is data consumer, would be
described analogically.
While considering the implementation of policy enforcement in a business ecosystem
such as the IDS, the authors identified two basic dimensions that need to be investigated to
develop an architecture based on the requirements from Section 4.
Data and its location are important factors for architectural design decisions (Naab et al.,
2015). Therefore, the first dimension is about the location, where the data consumer stores
the received data from the provider. Furthermore, architectural design is always a tradeoff
decision between cost and benefit (Kazman et al., 2001). Thus, the second dimension is about
what policy enforcement components are necessary and where they are located within the
IT infrastructure.
Regarding the first dimension, the location of the data store can be in the application
database, in an application independent database and in a database inside the IDS
connector. From a theoretical point of view, it is possible to split the data storage up into
different parts and implement all three characteristics at the same time. Regarding the
technical implementation, the data provider would choose the appropriate approach from
which the desired degree of data sovereignty can be achieved with acceptable effort.
Regarding the second dimension, the location of policy enforcement components can be
in the connector, in the connector and database, in the connector, database, and application
and in the connector, database, application and operating system. It is also possible to
implement the policy enforcement components just in the application or just in the database,
but from a data sovereignty perspective, stages are more appropriate to illustrate the
capabilities and limits of UC.
Both dimensions have various characteristics, and their combination is critical regarding
the capability of policy enforcement. Each combination goes along with advantages and
disadvantages for the data consumer and provider.
When combining the dimensions, different levels of data sovereignty are possible.
Architecture option 1a and 2a (see Figure 5) store their data in the application or an
independent database (1) whereas the enforcement components are in the connector (a). The
PEP controls the data flow within the IDS connector. The PXP performs actions at the
database and therefore gets access rights to trigger delete operations at the application
database (1a) or the independent database (2a). These architectures enable only a low degree
of data sovereignty for the data provider because the success of the delete operation or the
further distribution of the data cannot be controlled.
Architecture option 3a and 3b store their data in a database inside the IDS connector and
demand the implementation of enforcement components within the connector and the
database. As the PEP controls the data flow within the IDS connector, it can modify or
restrict access to data that is requested. The PXP is also able to perform actions on the
database. Although the data is separated, the data sovereignty is quite limited, because the

Data
sovereignty
in business
ecosystems
487

JEIM
32,3

Tier-1 Supplier

User Desktop

1a

IDS
Connector

Risk
Management
System

Tier-1 Supplier

User Desktop

Application

Database

IDS
Connector

Risk
Management
System

User Desktop

Application
PEP

Target

PEP

PEP
PDP

PEP

PEP
PXP

Delete

User Desktop

Application

PEP
PEP

PEP

PDP

Dataset from OEM

Dataset from OEM

Delete

Tier-1 Supplier

2d

IDS
Connector

PEP
PDP

Database

Risk
Management
System

Target

Dataset from OEM

PEP

Tier-1 Supplier

1d

IDS
Connector

Risk
Management
System

Database

PXP

Tier-1 Supplier

Figure 5.
Usage Control
architecture options
for data sovereignty

PDP

PXP

1c

Application
Target

Dataset from OEM

Delete

PEP

User Desktop

PEP

PEP
PDP

User Desktop

IDS
Connector

Risk
Management
System

Tier-1 Supplier

Application
Target

488

1b

3d

IDS Connector

Risk
Management
System
Application
PEP

Target

PEP
PDP

Dataset from OEM

Dataset from OEM

Database
Database

Database
Delete

PEP

PXP

Target
PXP

Delete

Database

Database

PEP
PXP

Delete

data which leave the connector, cannot be controlled as the application can process and
archive the data without further control and tracking. Besides, the computation power and
size of the database is also limited. Although 1b or 2b would probably solve the database
issue, it moves the database out of a trusted environment.
In summary, the authors conclude that the highest level of data sovereignty is possible
when the application is completely integrated into an ecosystem, where the transfer of all
data is trace- and controllable. Implementing this approach results in high effort, high costs
and causes some performance issues. Moving the application out of such an ecosystem
lowers effort, costs and performance reduction with every step, but this holds for data
sovereignty also. In the end, it is a tradeoff after considering all requirements.
The advantages and disadvantages of several combinations form a data consumer, and
provider point of view are described in Table IV. The architecture options are illustrated in
Figure 5. Because of space limitation, the authors focus on describing all architecture
options with a data storage in the application database (1a, 1b, 1c and 1d) and exemplify the
other two storage options only in the highest stage of UC enforcement (2d and 3d).
6. Evaluation
For evaluating the feasibility and industrial applicability of the developed architecture
options, the authors perform a case study with practitioners from the automotive industry.
Although representing different companies, the participants have taken on both
perspectives, because they are both data providers and data consumers. In a one-day
workshop (see Workshop D in Figure 1), the following steps are conducted as a focus group
discussion: (Step 1) assessment of the most suitable architecture option for the CSCRM use
case, (Step 2) discussion of implementation prerequisites and implications in practice,
(Step 3) feasibility assessment of the architecture options. The discussion of all three steps is
based on the data sovereignty requirements (see Table II) and the UC policies (see Table III)
from Section 4.
Step 1: from a data provider perspective, the architecture option with the highest degree
of data sovereignty is desirable. For a data consumer, an ideal solution is an architecture
option with slightest implementation effort and performance issues, which still satisfies
the requirements from the data provider. The data storage option inside the connector is the

Name Data consumer

Data provider

1a

+ no system changes required
– no control of data access, distribution and deletion
+ very low implementation costs
– no data manipulation is traceable
– no separation between internal and external data – no control of data presentation
– no prevention of screenshots and prints
– no prevention of data archiving and shoulder
surfing

1b

+ no application changes required
+ low implementation costs
– no separation between internal and external data
– database changes required
– very small performance reduction (additional
security queries)

+ control of data access, distribution and deletion
+ data manipulation is traceable
– control of data presentation
– prevention of screenshots and prints
– no prevention of data archiving and shoulder
surfing

1c

– no separation between internal and external data
– database and application changes required
– small performance reduction (additional security
queries)

+ control of data access, distribution and deletion
+ data manipulation is traceable
+ control of data presentation
– prevention of screenshots and prints
– no prevention of data archiving and shoulder
surfing

1d

– no separation between internal and external data
– database, application and operating system
changes required
– medium performance reduction (additional
security queries)

+ control of data access, distribution and deletion
+ data manipulation is traceable
+ control of data presentation
+ prevention of screenshots and prints
– no prevention of data archiving and shoulder
surfing

2d

+ separation between internal and external data
– database, application and operating system
changes required
– medium performance reduction (additional
security queries)

3d

+ separation between internal and external data
+ data is stored in a safe operating environment
– database, application and operating system
changes required
– medium performance reduction (additional
security queries)

+ control of data access, distribution and deletion
+ data manipulation is traceable
+ control of data presentation
+ prevention of screenshots and prints
– no prevention of data archiving and shoulder
surfing
+ control of data access, distribution and deletion
+ data manipulation is traceable
+ control of data presentation
+ prevention of screenshots and prints
+ prevention of data archiving
– no prevention of shoulder surfing

favored because there are no deletion commands from the connector to an internal database
necessary. In sum, the practitioners found consensus in choosing architecture option 3d.
This option does not require any changes to the application database and offers the highest
degree of data sovereignty. At the moment this option is too costly to realize because of the
PEP integration into the existing application and operating systems. Option 3a requires
minor changes in the application (additional connection to the connector) and still enables
data sovereignty to a limited extent. The practitioners stated that 3a would be a good
intermediate step for solving their data sovereignty demands in the CSCRM use case.
However, the target state of 3d requires additional implementation prerequisites
(see evaluation Step 2).
Step 2: prerequisite for the implementation of the architecture option 3d is a fast and
low-cost integration of PEPs in the application and the operating systems. A retrofitting of a
PEP in an existing infrastructure requires a lot of programming effort. Also, the integration
possibilities may be limited (e.g. the application source code is not available). Therefore,
PEPs should be an enclosed component of the software (for example in the enterprise

Data
sovereignty
in business
ecosystems
489

Table IV.
Comparison of
selected usage control
architecture options
for data sovereignty

JEIM
32,3

490

resource planning system) from the beginning. As a result, the integration of a PEP is part
of the customization of the ERP provider. Furthermore, the PEPs must be certified by a
neutral organization to ensure data sovereignty effectiveness and the operability of the data
provider and consumer.
Step 3: the architecture options and the comparison of their characteristics (see Table IV )
supports the technical implementation of data sovereignty in a business ecosystem. They
assist the negotiation process between a data provider and customer through standardizing
and simplifying the complex issue of formulating usage policies for data.
7. Conclusion
The digitization of business brings with it new challenges for inter-organizational
collaboration, e.g., in the exchange of data to develop digital products and services.
Resulting from that is a rising need for conceptualizing and implementing policies to regulate
and organize data usage between enterprises. However, there is a lack of literature about data
sovereignty in business ecosystems. Therefore, the goal of this research is to provide a technical
concept for the implementation of data sovereignty in business ecosystems using UC.
Following the DSR process, the research is based on the “CSCRM” use case between an
OEM and one supplier stemming from the German automotive sector. In total, the authors
conduct four workshops with practitioners from both companies. Three of the workshops
have the focus to assert input regarding requirements of UC and data sovereignty. The
fourth workshop is a focus group of experts to collect feedback to the architecture options.
RQ1 addresses the requirements of data sovereignty and UC policies in the use case. The
authors identified eight requirements for data sovereignty with the practitioners. For example,
performance requirements such as the ability of parallel processing, fast data transmission
and a reasonable and straightforward implementation are essential. Furthermore, process
transparency and the option to manually adjust the UC policies are crucial. In literature, data
sovereignty requirements focus only on checking and verifying the data’s geolocation (see
Section 4.1). Regarding RQ1, the author’s research amounts to the formulation of six distinct
requirements for data sovereignty (see Table II) and UC policies (see Table III) in the use case.
RQ2 deals with the design of architecture options to enable UC. Based on two distinctive
dimensions, the authors developed twelve architecture options. The first dimension deals with
the data storage location, and the second dimension covers the location of policy enforcement
components. Each architecture option has different characteristics and meets different data
sovereignty requirements. The architecture option with the highest degree of data sovereignty
for the data provider requires the highest implementation effort for the data consumer. Based
on a case study with IT experts from the automotive industry, the architecture options are
evaluated. A consideration of the benefits and the associated effort is inevitable.
The research at hands provides multiple contributions both managerial and scientific.
Regarding scientific contributions, the research extends and grows the knowledge base of
the hitherto mostly unexplored domains of data sovereignty and UC. More specifically, the
core of this paper addresses the notion of the Business Ecosystems in said domains and
contributes to filling the existing gap of research in that area. Moreover, through abstracting
technical architecture options for UC, the authors argue that the research gives academics
guidance in applying the concepts onto their respective domains.
Additionally, the present research makes a threefold managerial contribution. First, it
increases the understanding of data sovereignty by describing requirements form the
industrial context. Furthermore, the paper may help to shape the imagination and
expectation regarding the opportunities with the use of UC and the corresponding policies
for business to business collaboration. Finally, the architecture options support the
implementation process of data sovereignty by demonstrating the characteristics of
different approaches.

The limitation of this paper is the narrowing on one use case from the automotive
industry. The input comes from two companies and their IT and logistics experts. The
authors do not claim for cross-sector validity, but the results of this paper are the first step.
However, it is a valid field for future research to evaluate the architecture options in other
industries.

References
Acatech, Kagermann, H., Riemensperger, F., Hoke, D., Helbig, J., Stocksmeier, D., Wahlster, W.,
Scheer, A.-W. and Schweer, D. (2014), “Smart service welt. Umsetzungsempfehlungen für das
Zukunftsprojekt Internetbasierte Dienste für die Wirtschaft”, acatech – Deutsche Akademie der
Technikwissenschaften, Berlin.
Ahlemann, F., Stettiner, E. and Messerschmidt, M. (2012), Strategic Enterprise Architecture
Management: Challenges, Best Practices, and Future Developments, Management for
Professionals, Springer, Berlin and Heidelberg.
Alneyadi, S., Sithirasenan, E. and Muthukkumarasamy, V. (2016), “A survey on data leakage
prevention systems”, Journal of Network and Computer Applications, Vol. 62 No. C, pp. 137-152.
Amoore, L. (2018), “Cloud geographies: computing, data, sovereignty”, Progress in Human Geography,
Vol. 42 No. 1, pp. 4-24.
Boley, H. and Chang, E. (2007), “Digital ecosystems: principles and semantics”, Inaugural IEEE-IES
Digital EcoSystems and Technologies Conference, IEEE, Cairns, February 21-23, pp. 398-403.
Briscoe, G. and Marinos, A. (2009), “Digital ecosystems in the clouds: towards community cloud
computing”, 3rd IEEE International Conference on Digital Ecosystems and Technologies,
Piscataway, IEEE, Istanbul, July 1-3, pp. 103-108.
Bussard, L., Neven, G. and Preiss, F.-S. (2010), “Downstream usage control”, IEEE International
Symposium on Policies for Distributed Systems and Networks (POLICY), IEEE, Piscataway, NJ,
July 21-23, pp. 22-29.
Carlsson, S.A., Henningsson, S., Hrastinski, S. and Keller, C. (2011), “Socio-technical IS design science
research: developing design theory for IS integration management”, Information Systems and
e-Business Management, Vol. 9 No. 1, pp. 109-131.
Chang, E. and West, M. (2006), “Digital ecosystems a next generation of the collaborative environment”,
International Conference on Information Integration and Web-based Applications Services,
Yogyakarta, December 4-6.
Choo, K.-K.R. (2014), “Legal issues in the cloud”, IEEE Cloud Computing, Vol. 1 No. 1, pp. 94-96.
Eisenhardt, K.M. and Graebner, M.E. (2007), “Theory building from cases. Opportunities and
challenges”, Academy of Management Journal, Vol. 50 No. 1, pp. 25-32.
Elshazly, A.R., Nasr, M.E., Fouad, M.M. and Abdel-Samie, F.S. (2017), “High payload multi-channel dual
audio watermarking algorithm based on discrete wavelet transform and singular value
decomposition”, International Journal of Speech Technology, Vol. 20 No. 4, pp. 951-958.
Esposito, C., Castiglione, A. and Choo, K.-K.R. (2016), “Encryption-based solution for data sovereignty
in federated clouds”, IEEE Cloud Computing, Vol. 3 No. 1, pp. 12-17.
Flyvbjerg, B. (2006), “Five misunderstandings about case-study research”, Qualitative Inquiry, Vol. 12
No. 2, pp. 219-245.
Forrester (2015), “Data sovereignty and SaaS: understanding the challenges and regulatory
requirements”, available at: www.intralinks.com/resources/whitepapers/data-sovereignty-andsaas (accessed May 1, 2019).
Frank, U. (2000), “Evaluation von Artefakten in der Wirtschaftsinformatik”, in Häntschel, I. and Heinrich, L.J.
(Eds), Evaluation und Evaluationsforschung in der Wirtschaftsinformatik, München, pp. 35-48.
Frattolillo, F. (2017), “A digital rights management system based on cloud”, Telkomnika
(Telecommunication Computing Electronics and Control), Vol. 15 No. 2, pp. 671-677.

Data
sovereignty
in business
ecosystems
491

JEIM
32,3

492

Gerring, J. (2004), “What is a case study and what is it good for?”, American Political Science Review,
Vol. 98 No. 2, pp. 341-354.
Gerring, J. (2006), Case Study Research: Principles and Practices, Cambridge University Press, Cambridge.
Gheorghe, G., Mori, P., Crispo, B. and Martinelli, F. (2010), “Enforcing UCON policies on the enterprise
service bus”, in Meersman, R., Dillon, T. and Herrero, P. (Eds), On the Move to Meaningful
Internet Systems: OTM 2010: Confederated International Conferences: CoopIS, IS, DOA and
ODBASE, Hersonissos, Crete, Springer, Berlin, Proceedings, Part II, October 25-29, pp. 876-894.
Goyal, V., Pandey, O., Sahai, A. and Waters, B. (2006), “Attribute-based encryption for fine-grained
access control of encrypted data”, in Juels, A., Wright, R. and Di Capitani Vimercati, S. de (Eds),
Proceedings of the 13th ACM Conference on Computer and Communications Security,
Alexandria, Virginia, ACM, New York, NY, p. 89.
Gregor, S. and Hevner, A.R. (2013), “Positioning and presenting design science research for maximum
impact”, MIS Quarterly, Vol. 37 No. 2, pp. 337-355.
Gustafsson, J. (2017), “Single case studies vs. multiple case studies: a comparative study”, available at:
www.diva-portal.org/smash/get/diva2:1064378/FULLTEXT01.pdf (accessed May 1, 2019).
Henke, M. and Kuhn, A. (Eds) (2017), Kollaboration als Schlüssel zum erfolgreichen Transfer
von Innovation: Analyse von Treibern und Hemmnissen in der Automobillogistik, Herbert
UTZ, München.
Hevner, A.R., March, S.T., Park, J. and Ram, S. (2004), “Design science in information systems
research”, MIS Quarterly: Management Information Systems, Vol. 28 No. 1, pp. 75-105.
Hilty, M., Basin, D. and Pretschner, A. (2005), “On Obligations”, in Di Capitani Vimercati, S.,
de, Gollmann, D. and Syverson, P. (Eds), Computer Security – ESORICS 2005: 10th European
Symposium on Research in Computer Security, Milan, Proceedings, Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, Springer, Berlin and Heidelberg, September 12-14, pp. 98-117.
Hippelainen, L., Oliver, I. and Lal, S. (2017), “Towards dependably detecting geolocation of cloud
servers”, in Tally, R.T., Battista, C.M., Yan, Z., Molva, R., Mazurczyk, W. and Kantola, R. (Eds),
Ecocriticism and Geocriticism/Network and System Security: Overlapping Territories in
Environmental and Spatial Literary Studies/11th International Conference, NSS 2017,
Helsinki, Proceedings, Geocriticism and Spatial Literary Studies, Palgrave Macmillan; Springer,
New York, August 21-23, pp. 643-656.
Huang, T., Zhang, Z., Chen, Q. and Chang, Y. (2013), “A method for trusted usage control over digital
contents based on cloud computing”, International Journal of Digital Content Technology and its
Applications, Vol. 7 No. 4, pp. 795-802.
Irion, K. (2012), “Government cloud computing and national data sovereignty”, Policy & Internet, Vol. 4
Nos 3-4, pp. 40-71.
Johansson, R. (2007), “On case study methodology”, Open House International, Vol. 32 No. 3, pp. 48-54.
Jung, C., Eitel, A. and Schwarz, R. (2014), “Enhancing cloud security with context-aware usage control
policies”, in Plödereder, E., Grunske, L., Schneider, E. and Ull, D. (Eds), 44. Jahrestagung der
Gesellschaft für Informatik: Big Data – Komplexität meistern, GI, Stuttgart, pp. 211-222.
Kalam, A.A.E., Baida, R.E., Balbiani, P., Benferhat, S., Cuppens, F., Deswarte, Y., Miege, A., Saurel, C.
and Trouessin, G. (2003), “Organization based access control”, Proceedings, POLICY 2003: IEEE
4th International Workshop on Policies for Distributed Systems and Networks, IEEE, Lake Como,
June 4-6, pp. 120-131.
Karafili, E. and Lupu, E.C. (2017), “Enabling data sharing in contextual environments. Policy
representation and analysis”, Proceedings of the 22nd ACM on Symposium on Access Control
Models and Technologies, ACM, New York, NY, pp. 231-238.
Katz, G., Elovici, Y. and Shapira, B. (2014), “CoBAn: a context based model for data leakage
prevention”, Information Sciences, Vol. 262, pp. 137-158.
Kazman, R., Asundi, J. and Klein, M. (2001), “Quantifying the costs and benefits of architectural
decisions”, Proceedings of the 23rd International Conference on Software Engineering: ICSE,
IEEE Computer Society, IEEE, Toronto, May 12-19, pp. 297-306.

Kelbert, F. and Pretschner, A. (2012), “Towards a policy enforcement infrastructure for distributed
usage control”, in Atluri, V. (Ed.), Proceedings of the 17th ACM Symposium on Access Control
Models and Technologies, ACM, New York, NY, pp. 119-122.
Kumari, P. and Pretschner, A. (2012), “Deriving implementation-level policies for usage control
enforcement”, in Bertino, E. (Ed.), Proceedings of the Second ACM Conference on Data and
Application Security and Privacy, ACM, New York, NY, February 7-9, p. 83.
Lablans, M., Kadioglu, D., Muscholl, M. and Ückert, F. (2015), “Exploiting distributed, heterogeneous
and sensitive data stocks while maintaining the owner’s data sovereignty”, Methods of
Information in Medicine, Vol. 54 No. 4, pp. 346-352.
Lee, J.S., Pries-Heje, J. and Baskerville, R. (2011), “Theorizing in design science research”, in Jain, H.,
Sinha, A.P. and Vitharana, P. (Eds), Service-Oriented Perspectives in Design Science Research,
Springer, Berlin and Heidelberg, pp. 1-16.
Leist, S. and Zellner, G. (2006), “Evaluation of current architecture frameworks”, Proceedings of the
ACM Symposium on Applied Computing, Dijon, April 23-27, pp. 1546-1553.
Lin, E.T., Eskicioglu, A.M., Lagendijk, R.L. and Delp, E.J. (2005), “Advances in digital video content
protection”, Proceedings of the IEEE, Vol. 93 No. 1, pp. 171-182.
Liu, Q., Safavi-Naini, R. and Sheppard, N.P. (2003), “Digital rights management for content
distribution”, Proceedings of the Australasian Information Security Workshop Conference on
ACSW Frontiers 2003 – Volume 21, Australian Computer Society, Darlinghurst, pp. 49-58.
Ma, Z. (2017), “Digital rights management. Model, technology and application”, China Communications,
Vol. 14 No. 6, pp. 156-167.
March, S.T. and Smith, G.F. (1995), “Design and natural science research on information technology”,
Decision Support Systems, Vol. 15 No. 4, pp. 251-266.
Moore, J.F. (2006), “Business ecosystems and the view from the firm”, The Antitrust Bulletin, Vol. 51
No. 1, pp. 31-75.
Naab, M., Braun, S., Lenhart, T., Hess, S., Eitel, A., Magin, D., Carbon, R. and Kiefer, F. (2015), “Why
data needs more attention in architecture design – experiences from prototyping a large-scale
mobile app ecosystem”, in Bass, L., Lago, P. and Kruchten, P. (Eds), 12th Working IEEE/IFIP
Conference on Software Architecture, WICSA 2015: Montréal, IEEE, Piscataway, NJ, May 4-8,
pp. 75-84.
Nachira, F. (2002), “Toward a network of digital business ecosystems fostering the local development”,
available at: www.digital-ecosystems.org/doc/discussionpaper.pdf (accessed May 1, 2019).
Nugraha, Y., Kautsarina, A.S. and Sastrosubroto, A.S. (2015), “Towards data sovereignty in cyberspace”,
3rd International Conference of Information and Communication Technology, Piscataway, NJ,
Nusa Dua and Bali, May 27-29, pp. 465-471.
OASIS (2013), “eXtensible access control markup language (XACML) version 3.0”, available at: http://
docs.oasis-open.org/xacml/3.0/xacml-3.0-core-spec-os-en.html (accessed January 16, 2018).
Object Management Group (2016), “Semantics of business vocabulary and business rules (SBVR)”,
available at: www.omg.org/spec/SBVR/About-SBVR/ (accessed May 1, 2019).
Object Management Group (2017), “Data residency challenges and opportunities for standardization”,
available at: www.omg.org/cgi-bin/doc?mars/17-03-22.pdf (accessed January 16, 2018).
Otto, B., Hompel, M.T. and Wrobel, S. (2018), “Industrial data space”, in Neugebauer, R. (Ed.),
Digitalisierung: Referenzarchitektur für die Digitalisierung der Wirtschaft, Springer, Berlin and
Heidelberg, pp. 113-133.
Otto, B., Lohmann, S., Auer, S., Brost, G., Cirullies, J., Eitel, A., Ernst, T., Haas, C., Huber, M., Jung, C.,
Jürjens, J., Lange, C., Mader, C., Menz, N., Nagel, R., Pettenpohl, H., Pullmann, J., Quix, C., Schon, J.,
Schulz, D., Schütte, J., Spiekermann, M. and Wenzel, S. (2017), “Reference architecture model for the
industrial data space”, International Data Space Association, Fraunhofer-Geschsllschaft, available
at: www.fraunhofer.de/content/dam/zv/de/Forschungsfelder/industrial-data-space/IDS_Referenz_
Architecture.pdf (accessed May 1, 2019).

Data
sovereignty
in business
ecosystems
493

JEIM
32,3

Park, J. and Sandhu, R. (2002), “Towards usage control models. Beyond traditional access control”, in
Sandhu, R. (Ed.), Proceedings of the Seventh ACM Symposium on Access Control Models and
Technologies, ACM, New York, NY, June 3-4, p. 57.
Park, J. and Sandhu, R. (2004), “The UCON ABC usage control model”, ACM Transactions on
Information and System Security, Vol. 7 No. 1, pp. 128-174.

494

Pearson, S. and Casassa-Mont, M. (2011), “Sticky policies: An approach for managing privacy across
multiple parties”, Computer, Vol. 44 No. 9, pp. 60-68.
Peffers, K., Tuunanen, T., Rothenberger, M.A. and Chatterjee, S. (2007), “A design science research
methodology for information systems research”, Journal of Management Information Systems,
Vol. 24 No. 3, pp. 45-77.
Peltoniemi, M. and Vuori, E. (2004), “Business ecosystem as the new approach to complex adaptive
business environments”, in Seppä, M., Hannula, M., Järvelin, A.-M., Kujala, J., Ruohonen, M. and
Tiainen, T. (Eds), Frontiers of e-Business Research-Conference Proceedings, Tampere, pp. 267-281.
Peterson, Z.N.J., Gondree, M. and Beverly, R. (2011), “A position paper on data sovereignty. The
importance of geolocating data in the cloud”, Proceedings of the 3rd Usenix Conference on Hot
Topics in Cloud Computing, Portland, OR, June 14-15, pp. 9-13.
Polatin-Reuben, D. and Wright, J. (2014), “An Internet with BRICS characteristics. Data sovereignty
and the balkanisation of the Internet”, 4th USENIX Workshop on Free and Open
Communications on the Internet (FOCI 14), USENIX Association, San Diego, CA.
Pretschner, A., Hilty, M. and Basin, D. (2006), “Distributed usage control”, Communications of the ACM,
Vol. 49 No. 9, pp. 39-44.
Pretschner, A., Hilty, M., Basin, D., Schaefer, C. and Walter, T. (2008), “Mechanisms for usage control”,
in Abe, M. (Ed.), Proceedings of the 2008 ACM Symposium on Information, Computer and
Communications Security, ACM, New York, NY, pp. 240-244.
Rabiee, F. (2004), “Focus-group interview and data analysis”, Proceedings of the Nutrition Society,
Vol. 63 No. 4, pp. 655-660.
Rudolph, M., Moucha, C. and Feth, D. (2016), “A framework for generating user-and domain-tailored
security policy editors”, IEEE 24th International Requirements Engineering Conference
workshops: Proceedings, IEEE, Piscataway, NJ, September 12-16, pp. 56-61.
Rudolph, M., Schwarz, R. and Jung, C. (2014), “Security policy specification templates for critical
infrastructure services in the cloud”, 9th International Conference for Internet Technology and
Secured Transactions, IEEE, Piscataway, NJ, December 8-10, pp. 61-66.
Sandhu, R. and Park, J. (2003), “Usage control. A vision for next generation access control”, in
Gorodetsky, V., Popyack, L. and Skormin, V. (Eds), Computer Network Security: Second
International Workshop on Mathematical Methods, Models, and Architectures for Computer
Network Security, MMM-ACNS 2003, St Petersburg. Proceedings, Lecture Notes in Computer
Science, Vol. 2776, Springer, Berlin and Heidelberg, September 21-23, pp. 17-31.
Sandhu, R.S. (1993), “Lattice-based access control models”, Computer, Vol. 26 No. 11, pp. 9-19.
Sandhu, R.S. and Samarati, P. (1994), “Access control. Principle and practice”, IEEE Communications
Magazine, Vol. 32 No. 9, pp. 40-48.
Stamati-Koromina, V., Ilioudis, C., Overill, R., Georgiadis, C.K. and Stamatis, D. (2012), “Insider threats
in corporate environments. A case study for data leakage prevention”, ACM International
Conference Proceeding Series, Novi Sad, Serbia, September 16-20, pp. 271-274.
Stamp, M. (2003), “Digital rights management. The technology behind the hype”, Journal of Electronic
Commerce Research, Vol. 4 No. 3, pp. 102-112.
Steinebach, M., Krempel, E., Jung, C. and Hoffmann, M. (2016), “Datenschutz und datenanalyse”,
Datenschutz und Datensicherheit – DuD, Vol. 40 No. 7, pp. 440-445.
Thomas, G. (2011), “A typology for the case study in social science following a review of definition,
discourse, and structure”, Qualitative Inquiry, Vol. 17 No. 6, pp. 511-521.

Tremblay, M.C., Hevner, A.R. and Berndt, D.J. (2010), “The use of focus groups in design science
research”, in Hevner, A. and Chatterjee, S. (Eds), Design Research in Information Systems:
Theory and Practice, Springer, Boston, MA, pp. 121-143.
Vom Brocke, J., Simons, A., Riemer, K., Niehaves, B., Plattfaut, R. and Cleven, A. (2015), “Standing on
the shoulders of giants: challenges and recommendations of literature search in information
systems research”, CAIS, Vol. 37, p. 9.
Webster, J. and Watson, R.T. (2002), “Analyzing the past to prepare for the future: writing
a literature review”, MIS Quarterly: Management Information Systems, Vol. 26 No. 2,
pp. xiii-xxiii.
Wu, J., Zhou, J., Ma, J., Mei, S. and Ren, J. (2011), “An active data leakage prevention model for insider
threat”, Proceedings – 2011 International Symposium on Intelligence Information Processing and
Trusted Computing, IEEE, Wuhan, October 22-23, pp. 39-42.
Yin, R.K. (2008), Case Study Research: Design and Methods, 4th ed., Sage Publications, Thousand Oaks, CA.
Zachman, J.A. (1999), “Framework for information systems architecture”, IBM Systems Journal, Vol. 38
No. 2, pp. 454-470.

Corresponding author
Johannes Zrenner can be contacted at: johannes.zrenner@tu-dortmund.de

For instructions on how to order reprints of this article, please visit our website:
www.emeraldgrouppublishing.com/licensing/reprints.htm
Or contact us for further details: permissions@emeraldinsight.com

Data
sovereignty
in business
ecosystems
495

