The current issue and full text archive of this journal is available on Emerald Insight at:
www.emeraldinsight.com/0263-5577.htm

IMDS
119,6

Human factors in information
leakage: mitigation strategies for
information sharing integrity

1242

Wai Peng Wong and Hwee Chin Tan
School of Management, Universiti Sains Malaysia,
Penang, Malaysia

Received 6 December 2018
Revised 18 February 2019
31 March 2019
Accepted 7 April 2019

Kim Hua Tan
University of Nottingham, Nottingham, UK, and

Ming-Lang Tseng
Institute of innovation and circular economy,
Asia University, Taichung City, Taiwan and
Department of Medical Research,
China Medical University Hospital, Taichung City, Taiwan
Abstract
Purpose – The purpose of this paper is to explore the human factors triggering information leakage and
investigate how companies mitigate insider threat for information sharing integrity.
Design/methodology/approach – The methodology employed is multiple case studies approach with
in-depth interviews with five multinational enterprises (MNEs)/multinational corporations (MNCs).
Findings – The findings reveal that information leakage can be approached with human governance
mechanism such as organizational ethical climate and information security culture. Besides, higher frequency
of leakages negatively affects information sharing integrity. Moreover, this paper also contributes to a
research framework which could be a guide to overcome information leakage issue in information sharing.
Research limitations/implications – The current study involved MNCs/MNEs operating in Malaysia,
while companies in other countries may have different ethical climate and information sharing culture. Thus,
for future research, it will be good to replicate the study in a larger geographic region to verify the findings
and insights of this research.
Practical implications – This research contributes to the industry and business that are striving toward
solving the mounting problem of information leakage by raising awareness of human factors and to take
appropriate mitigating governance strategies to pre-empt information leakage. This paper also contributes to
a novel theoretical model that characterizes the iniquities of humans in sharing information, and suggests
measures which could be a guide to avert disruptive leakages.
Originality/value – This paper is likely an unprecedented research in molding human governance in the
domain of information sharing and its Achilles’ heel which is information leakage.
Keywords Information sharing, Human governance, Information security culture, Information leakage,
Organization ethical climate
Paper type Research paper

Industrial Management & Data
Systems
Vol. 119 No. 6, 2019
pp. 1242-1267
© Emerald Publishing Limited
0263-5577
DOI 10.1108/IMDS-12-2018-0546

1. Introduction
Advocates of information sharing had highlighted the potential benefits of using valuable
information to improve overall organization performance (Fawcett et al., 2007; Kembro et al.,
2017). Information sharing is instrumental to foster collaboration and strengthen relationships
among employees within an organization and across organizations with business partners
(Lee and Whang, 2000). However, the advantages of information sharing can only be realized
when the information shared between the sender and the receiver is integral, wholesome and
The authors would like to thank the Academy of Sciences Malaysia, British Academy and
Newton-Ungku Omar Fund (Grant No. 304/PMGT/650912/B130) and Fundamental Research Grant
Scheme (203/PMGT/6711513) to complete this research project.

undistorted (Durugbo et al., 2014; Kwon and Suh, 2005). In other words, the value of the
information shared remains intact and uncontaminated. In many cases, inaccurate or distorted
information creates chaos and disruption to the organization (Cannella et al., 2015; Dai et al.,
2016; Kwak and Gavirneni, 2015). The fearful cause of information inaccuracy and distortion
in information sharing is internal information leakage.
Many information sharing specialists believe that promoting technology to protect
information against external attacks is an important method for making information
sharing effective within organizations (Stoneburner et al., 2002; Sumner et al., 2012).
Surprisingly, although organizations always have been concerned about vulnerability to
external threats, recent industry research indicates that a substantial amount of
information leakage incidents actually originated from within the organization
(Padayachee, 2016; Stanton et al., 2005). This is copiously supported by the Global
Data Leakage Report 2016 of InfoWatch. Its latest issue of information leakage in 2016
shows that among the data leaks logged, 38.2 percent of the cases were triggered by
external attacks, while 61.8 percent were caused by internal offenders (InfoWatch, 2016).
These insider leakages are major concerns and constitute the primary attention of
this research.
Information leakage refers to the act of intentional or unintentional disclosure of
information to an unauthorized party (Anand and Goyal, 2009). Practically all companies are
familiar to insiders posing risks due to their legitimate access to their organizations’
facilities, assets and valuable information (Colwill, 2009; Hunker and Probst, 2011;
Magklaras and Furnell, 2005). These insiders will likely know how to achieve the greatest
impact while leaving behind little or no evidence (Colwill, 2009). These harmful loss and
disclosures of business information are cited in business reports; and industry experiences
have shown information leakage propagated by authorized user or insider threats are
continually succeeding in harming organizations (Huth et al., 2013). Therefore, insiders are
among the greatest threat to the organization and insider leakage should be curbed if
organizations want to gain competitive advantage through information sharing (Huong
Tran et al., 2016; Tan et al., 2016; Zhang et al., 2012).
This study is important because the protection of confidential data against leakage is a
growing concern going by the leakage statistics (InfoWatch, 2016). Apparently, the
traditional way of protection using information security policies and conventional security
mechanisms such as firewalls, virtual private networks and intrusion detection systems
continue to succumb to the exploits of insiders and outsiders alike (Alneyadi et al., 2016;
InfoWatch 2016). Regrettably, these mechanisms lack proactiveness in protecting
confidential data.
We posit that the inherent complexities of the insider threat impacting information
leakage and the integrity of information sharing call for an examination of human factors.
Thus, the overarching goal of this research is to investigate how companies could mitigate
leakage caused by insider attacks in information sharing. Specifically, we wish to address
the following research questions:
RQ1. Why does information leakage happen?
RQ2. How could information leakage impact information sharing integrity?
RQ3. How could information leakage be mitigated?
The findings from this study will enable managers to make better-informed decisions to
help them develop appropriate mitigation and governance strategies in order to maintain
the consistency, accuracy and reliability information in their organizations (Nayar, 2004).
The exploratory nature of this study dictated that a qualitative, multiple case study
approach should be adopted. The study involved a total of five multinational companies

Human factors
in information
leakage

1243

IMDS
119,6

1244

predominantly in the manufacturing sector. Semi-structured interviews together with
secondary data source were used to capture valuable contextual information regarding the
history and characteristics of each case company and its information exchange process.
Interviews with representatives of the companies were also carried out to enable the
researchers to gain deeper insights into the mitigation strategies for leakages to achieve
information sharing integrity. This paper will proceed as follows. In the next section of
the study, we review the literature of human factors and information leakage. Section 3
describes the research context, the data collection procedure and methodology. Section 4
details the data analysis and presents the results. Section 5 provides the discussion. Section
6 provides the managerial implications and proposed framework. Finally, Section 7
concludes the study.
2. Literature review
Information leakage could occur in transit, in use and at rest (Alneyadi et al., 2016; Orgill
et al., 2004) (see Figure 1). Employees’ actions and behaviors are especially important in
information security as almost all information security solutions rely on the human element
to a large degree. This could be understood from the “in-use” stage where humans interface
with the hardware such as computer terminals. The “in-use” stage interacts or connects with
the “in transit” (cloud/internet) and also with the “at rest” where data are stored (Alneyadi
et al., 2016). The authorized user could access the internet/intranet and database to retrieve
or copy information, or the unauthorized user could hack into them. Some devices and
channels which could facilitate information leakage are the laptop, fax, tablet and
smartphone, e-mail, USB and the printer (Olzak, 2010). Noting users at the human–computer
interface could extract or steal information and share with unauthorized recipients, the
discussion on human factors will be first discussed followed by unintentional leakage and
intentional leakage (IL).

▪ Inspects all outbound
traffic
▪ Acts as a proxy server
▪ Report and alerts
security
▪ Coordinates with other
mechanism

Figure 1.
Three states of data

▪ Disables or enables
access to applications
▪ Blocks confidential
data transfer through
portable media
▪ Restricts copying,
pasting and editing
▪ Audits all activities

In Transit

In Use

Intranet/Internet

User

Source: Alneyadi et al. (2016)

▪ Prevents access to
data according to
policies
▪ Encrypts whole file
systems
▪ Scans, identifies and
secures data in
repositories
▪ Audits and reports
violations

At rest

User Database

2.1 Human factors
As described in the preceding section, in today’s information society, the use of information
technology (IT) is designed with the human–computer interface. This facilitates easy access
to data storage for both proper and unethical purposes. These unethical uses of IT are easily
committed by insiders (Crossler et al., 2013) often deliberately, and with malicious intent
posing a major security threat (Haines and Leonard, 2007; Liang and Xue, 2010). Some
examples of insider information leakage are the theft of personally identifiable information
to commit fraud, theft of intellectual property, or for an insider to pass sensitive or classified
information to unauthorized third parties (Greitzer and Frincke, 2010; Huth et al., 2013).
These thefts and leakages are intentional and malicious. Da Veiga and Eloff (2010) correctly
note that “an organisation’s approach to information security should focus on employee
[unethical] behavior.” Underpinning the gravity of this unethical/immoral use of computers
and information system (Kajzer et al., 2014) is “people could be the weakest link in IS
security” (Cheng et al., 2013). This observation “has the greatest potential for loss and
damage to the employer” (Willison and Warkentin, 2013). Following this, the converse is
that the major obstacle to achieve information security in an organization is insider actions
and behavior when they handle information (Okere et al., 2012). This is verified by the
results of studies which conclude that insiders pose a threat to information security
(Da Veiga and Eloff, 2010; Omar, 2015; Rhee et al., 2009; Stanton et al., 2005). Intuitively,
insider threats are rightly attributed to the human–computer interface since they have
authorized or unauthorized access. In addition, poor insider attitude and lack of awareness
of security issues are also among the most significant contributors to security incidents
(Endsley, 1995; Greitzer, Strozer, Cohen, Moore, Mundie and Cowley, 2014; Greitzer, Strozer,
Cohen, Bergey, Cowley, Moore and Mundie, 2014). For these, a key tool is to create security
awareness to make insiders more aware of any significant risks lurking in the company
enabling them to act to protect information assets (AlHogail and Mirza, 2014; Da Veiga and
Eloff, 2010).
Traditionally, organizations have paid considerable attention to the security of physical
assets but largely ignored insiders who should learn appropriate and acceptable human
behaviors for information asset security (Tseng and Fan, 2011). This ignorance could have
humans practically failed to safeguard their companies’ information assets (InfoWatch,
2016) resulting in leakage scandals. One common thread in such ethical scandals is the
insider ex post incentives offered by external parties (Tan et al., 2016). These insiders are
influenced by competitors or other parties to intentionally act out disruptive, unethical or
illegal behavior which compromises confidential information to achieve personal gains. This
particular behavior of leaking organization information to achieve personal gains is devious
and threatens the well-being of an organization (Omar, 2015). It is also an unethical act that
violates organization norms, formal or informal organizational policies, rules and
procedures (Robinson and Bennett, 1995). Therefore, ethical issues on the protection of
information assets should deserve more attention and will constitute a major topic in
information sharing (Da Veiga and Eloff, 2010).
The issue of human factors in information leakage is crucial especially in today’s
business digital world where information access and sharing are unavoidable in daily
activities. Unfortunately, organizations are still not absolutely clear about human factors
triggering intentional and unintentional leakage causing information sharing interruptions
(disruptions) as there is sparse research in human factors. Some psychosocial indicators that
are considered indications that an individual is a potentially malicious insider are
disgruntlement, disagreeing with feedback, anger, disengagement, disregard for authority
and performance issues (Greitzer and Frincke, 2010). In addition, information leakage could
also refer to inadvertent information loss when forgetting to change password, failing to log
off before leaving workplace or carelessly discarding sensitive information rather than

Human factors
in information
leakage

1245

IMDS
119,6

1246

shredding it (McCormick, 2008; Warkentin and Willison, 2009). Oddly, information leakages
may benefit some business operations. For instance, firms allow for voluntary information
spillovers regarding an innovative product or process in order to accelerate the arrival date
of the new inventions (Harhoff et al., 2003). Although information leakage or spillover may
benefit from the increase in diffusion via a number of effects, leaked proprietary information
may well flow outside the borders of any organizations in an uncontrollable, unwanted and
even harmful manner (Ritala et al., 2015) to allow competitors to similarly introduce their
new products.
Regardless of the leakage type and motivation, the impact of these insider actions could
precipitate in financial loss, disruption to the organization, loss of reputation and long-term
impact on organizational culture. Therefore, any impact may not depend on motivation
because an innocent act of unintentional leakage can have as devastating an effect as a
maliciously motivated attack (Hunker and Probst, 2011). The goal may therefore be to avoid
catastrophic consequences regardless of the motivation (Hunker and Probst, 2011). With
information leakage bringing more harm than good, it is counterproductive work behavior
(Marcus et al., 2016) and could be dealt with mitigation techniques (Hunker and Probst, 2011).
Today, insiders who want to leak confidential or proprietary information may not need a
great deal of specific knowledge of the information. Gigabytes or more of information can be
exfiltrated or duplicated using various means including e-mail, instant messaging, thumb
drives and other modern IT tools (Greitzer and Hohimer, 2011). Indeed, the only way to be
proactive is analysis of insider behavior in order to recognize signs and precursors of the
potential insider threat activity (Greitzer and Frincke, 2010). This is often evident in
behavior prior to execution of the crime. However, sometimes it can be difficult to separate
“acceptable” insider behavior from “unacceptable” behavior (Hunker and Probst, 2011).
Recognizing insider threats as human behavior deviance is an important starting point
to control information leakages in addition to existing technical measures. The insider
threat is revealed when human behaviors deviate from compliance with established
policies or normal standards of conduct regardless of whether they are caused by
ignorance, malice or disregard (Greitzer and Hohimer, 2011; Greitzer et al., 2008). Broadly,
the act of leaking information is classified as an undesirable behavior by employees who
share information for whatever reason which a company would rather protect (Ritala et al.,
2015). Human behavior can wreak havoc on information sharing through intentional or
unintentional abuse in the information sharing process because it could cause loss of
information value to both the giving and recipient company in the supply chain
information sharing. Identifying human factors of insider threats is thus necessary to
mitigate information leakage. Therefore, it is timely for academics and managers to search
for appropriate mitigation strategies to reduce information leakage effects in order to
attain information sharing integrity.
2.2 Intentional leakage
A general overview of IL is a negative and deviant workplace behavior (Dimotakis et al.,
2008; Robinson and Bennett, 1995) and is counterproductive to desired work behavior
(Gruys and Sackett, 2003). Intentional implies premeditated, conscious and willful decision
of an insider to harm the business operations of a company (Guo et al., 2011), while leakage
connotes the prohibition of revealing critical information to an unauthorized entity (Ritala
et al., 2015; Tan et al., 2016). Such occurrences stem from different motivations as described
in the preceding section. This could happen when insiders are offered incentives to do so
(i.e. to leak the organization’s confidential information for pecuniary interests) or it could be
a personal vendetta against the company (Nishat Faisal et al., 2007). Other reasons include
“innocent action,” “fun,” “technical challenge,” “criminal intentions” and “espionage,” or a
combination of each of these factors (Hunker and Probst, 2011).

In behavioral psychology, the outcome from the act of malicious insider who exploits
information for personal gains is IL (Warkentin and Willison, 2009). For instance, an insider
primarily motivated by personal financial gain could intentionally disclose confidential
information or misuse authorized access to steal and sell data (Cappelli et al., 2009). This
behavior of malicious insiders in leaking information intentionally could be explained by the
theory of human behaviorism (Nurse et al., 2014). This theory explains incentives could be
internal (intrinsic) or external (extrinsic) and drive the pattern of human motivations.
Intrinsic factor (e.g. employer’s recognition) can motivate employees to exhibit good conduct
during work but if the extrinsic factor (e.g. money and non-financial incentives offered by
competitors and outsiders) overwhelms the effect of intrinsic, then it will cause behavioral
change of insiders. The overpowering extrinsic factors would lure insiders to consciously
violate organization norms and tend to commit evil acts to threaten the well-being of an
organization (Sackett and DeVore, 2001). These evil acts cover a broad range of discrete
activities, e.g. theft, destruction of property, misuse of information, unethical decision
making and workplace retaliation (Warkentin and Willison, 2009; Marcus et al., 2016). This
explains external incentives could cause insiders to leak information when given sufficient
financial and non-financial rewards.
Noting the above, the risks or danger signals associated with insiders who are threats to
organization to leak information should be closely monitored and addressed. The risks from
intentional human (malicious insiders) activity are especially dangerous to confidential
information assets of organization (Hunker and Probst, 2011; Omar, 2015). This is because a
malicious insider has the potential to cause more damage to company information
infrastructures (Cappelli et al., 2012). Malicious insiders are trusted agents who have legitimate
and privileged access to facilities and resources, and possess strengths, weaknesses,
opportunities and threats knowledge of the organization and its processes and know the
location of critical or valuable information assets. This knowledge empowers insiders how,
when and where to attack and cover their trails (Colwill, 2009; Hoecht and Trott, 2006;
Warkentin and Willison, 2009; Huth et al., 2013). Hence, armed with ample opportunities, they
can exploit their positions to steal information and leak them to an unauthorized third party
making these insiders worrisome liabilities to the organizations (Hoecht and Trott, 2006)
which could cause their organizations to lose competitive advantage.
IL cause by frustration, personal vendetta, dislike of authority and inclination for
revenge (Moore et al., 2009; Colwill, 2009) could also explain their effects which produce
disequilibrium in human behaviorism. The unamicable situations in the work environment
would infuse a negative driving force (disincentives) to the insiders and caused them to
behave in a negative way. Engulfed with feelings of unhappiness, unfairness and
resentment in their job, these tipping points would invoke a change in psychological state
and attitudes to trigger attacks on selected assets and purposefully exposing critical
business information to outsiders, third parties or new companies (Nurse et al., 2014).
All these actions by the malicious insiders for specific purposes by disclosing confidential
information would seriously impact the competitiveness of the organization, and their
dishonesty in information sharing would cause harm to various parties in the supply chain
network because of disadvantage in information asymmetry.
2.3 Unintentional leakage
The term “unintentional” in this study implies “accidentally.” Unintentional leakage occurs
when an insider accidentally exposes critical business information not meant to be shared
with third parties (Ritala et al., 2015; Tan et al., 2016). The accidental insider threat is the
potential of an individual who has or had authorized access to an organization’s network,
system or data through action or inaction, without malicious intent, causes harm or
substantially increases the probability of future serious harm to the confidentiality, integrity

Human factors
in information
leakage

1247

IMDS
119,6

1248

or value of the organization’s information (Cappelli et al. 2012; Greitzer, Strozer, Cohen,
Moore, Mundie and Cowley, 2014; Greitzer, Strozer, Cohen, Bergey, Cowley, Moore and
Mundie, 2014). Generally, the accidental insider which is inevitable in an organization is
often the effect or symptom of deeper troubles (Bureau, 2013).
Most of the accidental insider threats, especially jobs which require protecting privileged
information (sensitive, proprietary or classified) pointed out human failures or errors could
lead to an information breach or data loss (Liginlal et al., 2009; Greitzer, Strozer, Cohen,
Moore, Mundie and Cowley, 2014; Greitzer, Strozer, Cohen, Bergey, Cowley, Moore and
Mundie, 2014). Errors could also occur in misperceptions and from a lack of awareness
(Bureau, 2013). Such poor cognitive behavior is a method instigating undesirable behavior
of unintentional leakage (Sonderegger, 2007). In normal circumstances, information is
attended, comprehended and aligned with the person’s attitudes, beliefs and motivations,
after which decision-making processes produce behavioral responses (Bureau, 2013).
However, the cognitive processes of perception, attention, comprehension and judgment/
decision making could produce erroneous actions and behaviors (Bureau, 2013). In other
words, poor cognitive process could have employees inadvertently or consciously make
decisions to act inappropriately or unfavorably to their companies.
The unintentional information leakage could occur when employees are unclear about
what they could actually disclose to business partners (Molok et al., 2010). Accidental insider
threat correlates to poor situation awareness rather than to poor decision making, though
decision making requires situation awareness (Endsley, 1995). Sometimes the overenthusiasm about a new idea or innovative prospect could cause momentary negligence of
protection responsibility when the other party is perceived as trustworthy (Greitzer, Strozer,
Cohen, Moore, Mundie, and Cowley, 2014). To that end, professional pride could affect
eagerness and willingness to share information, as could curiosity and passion (Fawcett et
al, 2007). Incorrect or incomplete situation awareness at any given time may result in human
error that causes unintentional leakage, potentially increasing organizational risk (Greitzer,
Strozer, Cohen, Moore, Mundie and Cowley, 2014).
The accidental insider has a history of causing information breaches as revealed in the
examples above. The information unintentional leakage as an incident is merely a function
of the insider’s negligence. But egregious to a fault, accidental insider threat in disclosure of
information can damage an organization’s reputation and perhaps make it liable to pay
damages to the injured party.
In sum, this section describes the human misbehaviors and perceptual weakness on
intentional and unintentional leakages, respectively. IL is associated with malicious insider
misbehavior, while unintentional leakage is related to accidental insiders and their
perception weakness. These are perennial problems showing an ever worsening and
persistent research gap of which closure is elusive. These intentional and unintentional do
not seem to decrease and on the contrary, they increase from year to year (InfoWatch, 2016).
The colossal financial losses attributed to both intentional and unintentional leakage
deserve the attention of researchers especially when new and patches of technological
defenses have failed (InfoWatch, 2016; Alneyadi et al., 2016). The next section will describe
the research context, the data collection procedure and methodology. Noting the serious
consequences and liabilities of human misbehavior and weaknesses, the intentional and
unintentional leakage, and the sparse research on human factors and leakage, this research
is devoted to lay further groundwork to address leakages from the human perspective
especially with the vulnerabilities at the human–computer interface.
3. Research methodology
The infancy of information leakage on information sharing integrity research calls for an
exploratory study (Saunders et al., 2009; Creswell, 2014). Qualitative research is primarily

exploratory research. It provides the complex textual descriptions of how people experience
the issue or problem under study (Mack et al., 2005).
In order to have a better understanding of the concept of information leakage and how
information leakage could impact information sharing integrity, it is necessary to look at the
organization and its information exchange process. This study chooses to use case study
approach because it aims at answering questions like “How” as well as the “Why,” and to
generate an in-depth, multi-faceted understanding of a complex phenomenon between
information leakage and information sharing integrity in its real-life context (Yin, 2013).
Besides, the use of case study approach can explore unknown variables in the phenomenon
which is not fully understood yet (Voss et al., 2002) such as information leakage. Hence, the
multiple cases through holistic design of Yin (2013) are adopted to explore managerial
approaches in mitigating the impact of intentional and unintentional leakage on information
sharing integrity. The holistic cases in this study refer to the Malaysia multinational
enterprise (MNE)/multinational corporations (MNCs).
Section 3.1 describes the research context before Section 3.2 justifies the case study
approach and method, followed by Section 3.3 which outlines the process of data collection.
3.1 Research context
In Malaysia, the number of MNEs/MNCs has grown tremendously due to Malaysia’s
geographical location in the region, multilingual capabilities and abundance skill workers
(Economic Transformation Programme, 2016). According to the World Investment Prospects
Survey 2014–2016 foreign direct investment (FDI) by the United Nations Conference on Trade
and Development, Malaysia ranks as among the world’s top 15 attractive countries for FDI.
Malaysia is strategically located in the heart of South East Asia and offers a
cost-competitive location for investor (MDBC, 2017). In this developing country with
well-developed infrastructure, productive workforce and technological advancement, it
also provides attractive incentives for investors (MIDA, 2017). As a result of perceptive
foresight, Malaysia has a strong economic fundamental to attract foreign investors.
The Star Online (2017) reported that Malaysia’s 2017 full year gross domestic product
(GDP) forecast to 5.3 percent which is higher than the GDP of 4.2 percent the year before.
Factors that will drive economic growth for Malaysia include exports and private
consumption (Ministry of Finance Malaysia, 2016). Moreover, Malaysian’s inflation rate
(CPI) was 2.1 percent is considered low and unemployment rate was 3.4 percent in 2016
(MIDA, 2017).
Furthermore, Malaysia has simple, transparent rules for registering a business, paying
taxes earlier by introducing an online system for filling and paying goods and services tax,
getting credit to provide investors credit scores and registering property helps create a level
playing field for doing business (The World Bank Group, 2017). According to its “Doing
Business 2017” report, Malaysia is ranked 23 among 190 countries in the ease of doing
business (The World Bank Group, 2017). Therefore, Malaysia is a business-friendly place
that provides MNEs/MNCs with opportunities for growth and profits.
In recent years, leakages of confidential information in MNEs/MNCs have generated a
great deal of discussion due to its severity which could harm the business environment
(InfoWatch, 2016). The Global Data Leakage Report 2016 by InfoWatch presents the latest
issue of information leakage in 2016. There were 1,556 leaks of confidential information
reported and was worse than the same period the year before (InfoWatch, 2016). Among the
data leaks logged, 38.2 percent of the cases were triggered by external attacks, while
61.8 percent were caused by internal offenders (InfoWatch, 2016). The Star Online (2016)
reported that a total of 9,915 incidents were received by CyberSecurity Malaysia in 2015.
Based on the current trend and scenario, this figure does not include data breaches and
records disclosed incidents that go unreported every day. All these incidents aimed at

Human factors
in information
leakage

1249

IMDS
119,6

leaking confidential business information, disrupted critical operations and jeopardized the
Malaysian economy (The Star Online, 2016).
For the above reasons, much global attention is now focused on the need to mitigate
information leakage in MNE/MNC of Malaysia. The Malaysia MNE/MNC therefore provides
a rich and appropriate setting for exploring our research questions.

1250

3.2 Multiple case study approach
Multiple case designs have increased in frequency in recent years (Yin, 2013). When
exploring new areas, multiple case study can augment external validity, guard against
observer bias (Voss et al., 2002; Barratt et al., 2011) and the results obtained can improve
generality (Voss et al., 2002; Yin, 2009). It also could create more robust and testable theories
than those based on single case (Eisenhardt and Graebner, 2007; Yin, 2009).
The multiple cases through holistic design are deemed appropriate because the selected
cases are conceived as “replication logic” design (Yin, 2013). This replication logic used in
multiple case studies is similar to the multiple experiments (Yin, 2013). In this study, five
cases of Malaysia MNE/MNC were examined. The selection of these companies was based
on: their MNEs/MNCs status; a physical presence ( facilities and other assets) in the host
country; and their practical understanding of the concept of information leakage. Each
MNE/MNC case study must be carefully selected to predict similar results (literal
replication) or predict contrasting results (theoretical replication) (Mills et al., 2010; Yin,
2013). In fact, the replications attempt to duplicate the exact MNE/MNC conditions of insider
IL and unintentional leakage of confidential information to unauthorized parties and how
MNE/MNC mitigate information leakage in order to achieve information sharing integrity.
Therefore, overall evidence from multiple cases are sought regarding the information
leakage impact upon information sharing integrity and are considered robust (Herriott and
Firestone, 1983; Yin, 2009, 2013).
Before proceeding with data collection, all companies selected for this study must meet
the following criteria: companies are MNE or MNC; companies have a physical presence in
Malaysia, i.e. have facilities and other assets; and companies must well understand the
concept of information leakage.
3.3 Data collection
The companies which fulfilled all the above criteria were chosen from the Business Monitor
International (BMI) (2017). The BMI provides online access to a large and rich database of
multinational companies in emerging markets. The primary mode of data collection was
interviewing; other methods employed included collecting printed documents.
In total, five semi-structured interviews were conducted to gather managerial
approaches in mitigating the impact of information leakage in information sharing
integrity. Semi-structured interviews can be very helpful in an exploratory study (Saunders
et al., 2009). Besides, semi-structured interview is generally organized around a set of
predetermined open-ended questions, with other questions emerging from the dialogue
between interviewer and interviewee (DiCicco-Bloom and Crabtree, 2006). In this research,
the interview questions were conducted on a one-to-one basis, between interviewee and
interviewer, and took between 30 min to several hours to complete. All interviews were
recorded and transcribed. By the end of the fifth interview, the incremental value added per
interview was minimal and we were arguably approaching saturation.
In addition to the face-to-face interviews, the interviewer collected printed documents to
supplement the information obtained from the five MNCs/MNEs. These documents ranged
from confidential documents (personal journals and diaries, letters and e-mails) and public
documents (company’s brochure, catalogues, newspapers and official reports) to other

publicly available information (Creswell, 2014). The documents were related to information
sharing processes, policies and procedures of a company and performance improvements.
An overview of the companies and interviewees is provided in Table I. The five
MNCs/MNEs are referred to as Companies A, B, C, D and E. The data collection procedure is
described in the following section.
3.3.1 Data collection procedure. The in-depth interviews were conducted in February
2017. In all five cases, appointments by e-mail were made before visiting the companies. To
ensure the interviewee has a clear understanding and could answer some questions, an
introduction of research project together with the definition of information leakage and
threats businesses face today were made. Besides, this offered the interviewee sufficient
time to organize the relevant documents before interview session. A one-day site visit to
each company was arranged with the duration of each semi-structured interview ranging
from 45 min to 96 min with key interviewee. Finally, a chance to review documents related to
information sharing processes, policies, company procedures and performance
improvements before the end of the visit. During the interview, information was recorded
by taking down notes and audiotaping. The interview protocol included the following:
(1) set the heading (date, place, interviewer and interviewee);
(2) prepare a short introduction for interviewee at the beginning, followed by questions
and concluding statement;
(3) when interviewee remains unduly silent, we explain their ideas in greater detail and
discuss what they have said to help them express their ideas;
(4) the lapses between the questions are meant to record responses; and
(5) a final thank you statement to acknowledge the time the interviewee spent during
the interview.
The interview questions are provided in Table AI. Data and information collected from five
cases are kept confidential at all times. To increase the truth value of the study, one
additional step was taken. The transcriptions and the summary of each interview were sent
back to the respective interviewees for congruency with the information provided. The
interviewees were given sufficient time to review and amend the contents. Any transcription
discrepancy is resolved by seeking further advice from the relevant interviewee. This
method was also used by Da Mota Pedrosa et al. (2012).

Company Country base locations

Interviewees’ Sector/Standard Industry
position
Classification (2011–3999)

A

Malaysia ( Johor, Selangor),
Cambodia

General
manager

B

Malaysia (Batu Pahat, Pasir
Gudang, Segamat, Nilai),
Thailand, Indonesia
Malaysia (Malacca), Germany,
Singapore, United States

Marketing
manager

C
D
E

Human
resource
manager
Malaysia (Klang), China
Head of
purchasing
Malaysia (Penang), China, the UK, Project
the Philippines, India, Brazil,
manager
Slovakia, Poland, Panama,
Ireland, Morocco

Manufacturing and service
company (paper, packaging,
labeling and printing)
Manufacturing company
( furniture, carpets and
wood-related products)
Manufacturing company
(electronic and technology)
Manufacturing company
(consumer products)
Manufacturing and service
company (electronic and
technology)

Human factors
in information
leakage

1251

Duration
Staff (minutes)
200

45

350

96

850

87

500

75

2,000

80

Table I.
An overview of
companies and
interviewees

IMDS
119,6

1252

4. Data analysis
With the aim of exploring managerial approaches in mitigating the impact of insider threat
toward information leakage on information sharing integrity, the analysis thus involved
codification of the interview transcripts to allow for qualitative analysis. All responses were
imported into MAXQDA 12.0 software for coding, count and analysis.
During the analysis, a three-step qualitative data analysis was used (Miles and
Huberman, 1994). First step involved the researcher reviewing the transcripts for accuracy
and generating coding categories. The second step arranged codes similar category or
theme into a cluster. In the final stage of the analysis, the findings were discussed, confirmed
and reflected upon with key interviewees of the case companies where information leakage
was studied.
To confirm the conclusion of the study and ensure validity, it is important to be aware of
potential biases when analyzing case study data. Most prominently is the potential that
interviewees would play down their degree of information leakage throughout their
companies in a positive light to protect their reputation. Generally, potential biases when
analyzing case study data do not appear in this study. This is because, when we explain
information leakage to the interviewees, we portray leakage in a neutral state. For instance,
we mentioned that information leakage is like know-how trading, is needed for technology
transfer and the direction of its effect would depend on competition, exclusivity and
instrumentality of the relationship (Schrader, 1989). As such, the interviewees were
generally open about their shortcomings and potential biases were avoided.
4.1 Coding, calculation and analysis
The responses from the interviews were then imported into MAXQDA 12.0 software, a
digital tool for qualitative analysis (Paulus et al., 2014) to be coded, counted and analyzed.
4.1.1 MAXQDA’s Code Matrix Browser. Figure 2 shows MAXQDA’s Code Matrix
Browser providing visualization of how often these five case companies’ documents have
been assigned specific codes. The matrix provides an overview of Companies A, B, C, D and
E on x-axis, and specific codes (code system) on y-axis. The size of the symbol indicates how
often the code has been used in a particular document of the company. The extreme
right-hand column reports the number of segments of text codified for each code. The total
number of coded segments assigned and retrieved is 112. The most frequently applied code
is “organizational ethical climate (OEC)” with 36 segments codified. The second most
frequent code appearing is “information security culture” with 32 segments. These were
followed by “information leakage” with 8 segments. Therefore, the analysis shows that
the OEC and information security culture are often seen as countermeasures for the
information leakage.
Code System

Figure 2.
MAXQDA’s Code
Matrix Browser

Company A

Company B

Company C

Company D

Company E

SUM

Recommendations

5

Discipline Action Plan

7

Consequences

4

Perpetrator

4

Information Missing

5

Information Security Culture

32

Organizational Ethical Climate

36

Factors of Information Leakage

8

Unintentional Leakage

5

Intentional Leakage
∑ SUM

6
28

23

18

20

23

112

4.1.2 Conceptual maps. MAXMaps tool combines analysis of study turning into conceptual
maps. The last step of analysis in this study is to turn ideas and results into conceptual
maps. MAXMaps tool is used for this, which has customized, standardized and
pre-programmed visualizations (Paulus et al., 2014). The first is a standardized visualization
for the category “managerial approaches.” The second is a user-created conceptual model of
“information leakage and consequences.” Figure 3 is created with the “Code–Subcode
Model”. The code of “OEC” and “information security culture” was selected and the model
automatically created. It shows the sub-codes arranged around the selected code in the
down and up coded segments. Each of the sub-codes is a managerial approach mentioned in
the data set to mitigate the negative impacts of IL and unintentional leakage. All results
were gathered into a conceptual map that brought together the causes (IL and unintentional
leakage), consequences and managerial approaches in mitigating the impact of information
leakage (Table II).

Human factors
in information
leakage

1253

5. Discussions
From the interviews, Malaysia MNEs/MNCs A, B, C, D and E revealed that information
leakage occurred in their companies. We will now relate the findings to our research questions.
5.1 Why information leakage happens?
Earlier studies emphasize that information sharing has clear benefits but poses risk of
information leakage that organizations must be aware of (Anand and Goyal, 2009; Lee and
Whang, 2000; Li, 2002; Sharma and Routroy, 2016; Zhang et al., 2011, 2012). In this study, we
empirically identified the factors triggering information leakage and managerial approaches
in mitigating negative consequences to achieve successful information integrity.
Our findings confirmed that leakage happens due to human factors. Human factors are
the major challenge as Companies A, B, C, D and E face information leakage either
intentional or unintentional. IL happened in the company due to personal greed other than
organization benefit in which employees are willing to take risk over value of personal
obsession, like what were mentioned by Companies B and E. Besides, Company A
employee’s jealousy with others, disgruntled with company or feeling vindictive for any
reasons also caused IL. Moreover, Companies C and D faced malicious hackers who
Security Awareness
Manually Investigated Data Disclosed

Intranet
Training and Development

Alert Employees

Criminalized (to declare illegal or to outlaw)

Password Security
Educated Risk Behavior
Access Control
Security Agreement

Classified Information

Remind

Non-disclosure declaration
Unintentional Leakage

User Activity Monitoring

Information Security Culture

Software

Consequences

Factors of Information Leakage
Managerial Approaches

Organizational Ethical Climate

Intentional Leakage

Code of Ethics
Reward System
Education
Banner

Policies and Procedures

Assessment Test
Recognition Program

Small Briefing Section
Motivation Speech

Training

Sharing Session

Figure 3.
Conceptual map

IMDS
119,6

1254

Company

A

B

Industry

Manufacturing
and service
company
Paper,
packaging,
labeling and
printing
200

Manufacturing Manufacturing Manufacturing
company
company
company
Furniture,
carpets and
wood-related
products
350

Electronic and
technology

Consumer products

850

500

2,000

Sometimes

Sometimes

Sometimes

Frequently

Frequently

Payroll data,
company sales
data and
customer data

Selling price,
materials cost
and quotation
of products

Financial data
and materials
cost
information

Jealousy,
disgruntlement
and
vindictiveness
Medium

Yes

Type of
manufacturing
Size (based on
no. of
employees)
Frequency of
information
leakage
occurrences in
the company
Types of
information
leaked

Factors

Table II.
Summary for
information leakage,
factors and
managerial
approaches

Level of
awareness of
information
protection and
leakage (high,
medium, low)
Mitigation
measures
implemented

C

D

E
Manufacturing
and service
company
Electronic and
technology

Human errors,
negligence,
personal
benefits
Medium

Selling price,
financial statement,
purchasing plan,
customer data,
material cost, and
product price
Malicious
New employees,
insider hackers, over-enthusiasm
employee
about new ideas
negligence
Medium
High

High

Yes

Yes

Yes

Yes

Pricing
information
and personal
information
Personal
obsession

breached company’s valuable information due to insufficient data protection Acts. Hence, all
intentional human behaviors are unethical action to harm the security and business
operations. These findings are consistent with past studies of insider threat (employees/
malicious insider – associated with behavioral aspects of human) and is the core factor that
leads to information IL in an organization (Colwill, 2009; Mohamed et al., 2006; Warkentin
and Willison, 2009).
In contrast, unintentional leakage happened due to negligent employees having breached
their duty to protect, and accidentally leaking the valuable information to external parties, like
what happened in Companies B and C. Sometimes, employee’s over-enthusiasm about a new idea
and the company failed to educate employees about risky behaviors (like Company D) could also
accidentally leaked information. In Company D, new employees’ unintentional disclosure of
valuable information due to employees being unclear about what they could actually disclose to
partners. Thus, human error is a significant source that may damage or destroy information
assets. These findings are also consistent with past studies of human error (employees/accidental
insider – associated with lack of awareness) which revealed more information to authorized
parties accidentally and is the core factor that leads to information unintentional leakage in an
organization (Mohamed et al., 2006; Molok et al., 2010; Tan et al., 2016)
As such, the human factors that trigger information leakages are summarized in Figure 4.

5.2 How information leakage could impact information sharing integrity?
Every respondent (Companies A to E) acknowledged that information leakage is critical
because information of the company is lost or leaked to external parties either intentional or
unintentional. The critical information disclosed may flow outside organizational borders in
an uncontrollable, unwanted and harmful manner. This finding synchronizes with the
findings from Ahmad et al. (2015) which shows that the powerful impact of information
leakage has devastating consequences on an organization. Any information shared or
received that is unable to achieve real time transmission (in other words, leakage occurring
in the transmission) will affect the overall efficiency and decapitate the process.
The interviewees proposed that information leakage causes one of the biggest threats to
damage the companies. For example, Company A pointed out that disgruntled employees
may intentionally leaked critical information to unauthorized parties. The unauthorized
parties acknowledged the value of information to enhance their competency and mutually
generate new idea from the leaked information received. Similarly, Company B discovered
the employee purposely breached confidential information to third parties for personal
benefits. The threat of third parties could imitate a new innovation with little incentive to
invest in R&D and innovation. It can be concluded that IL caused unauthorized parties gain
as much innovation benefits, but companies involved have been awarded damages for loss
of much higher quality information in the market. This is the two-edge sword of information
IL, benefiting one end and risking the other end.
Although the growing significance of information sharing practices is good for
organizations’ competitiveness and market performance, information leakage makes it
difficult to achieve the goals and deliver a positive return on investment. Purchasing
executive of Company D recounted that:

Human factors
in information
leakage

1255

The impact of information leakage is unexpected and out of control in the company. Our company
was over-enthusiastic about a new idea to achieve its mission, values and goals but failed to
educate employees about risky behaviours that could unintentionally leak data and information.
Therefore, our company had to invest huge resources developing security policies in order to
mitigate information leakage. This is the only way to achieve its goals and deliver higher return.

In the meanwhile, Company E admitted that information leakage led to lack of trust with
partners. Hence, partners are unwilling to share information due to disclosure of any
confidential information without partner’s consent. Therefore, information sharing
collaboration is difficult to accomplish and facilitate information sharing for maximum
efficiency and effectiveness:
Our company faced up supplier’s information was leaked to third parties. The trust among
suppliers was broken and the reputation is ruined. _Project Program Analyst of Company E)

Intentional Leakage

Behavior
(malicious insider)

Jealous of others success,
Disgruntled with company
Vindictive for any reasons
Personal Obsession

Human
Factors

Information
Leakage
Unintentional Leakage

Cognitive
(accidental insider)

Human errors and negligence
Over-enthusiasm new idea
New employees unclear roles and responsibilities

Figure 4.
Human factors that
trigger information
leakage

IMDS
119,6

1256

Moreover, Company D revealed that information leakage is a risk undermining the
effectiveness of information sharing. Through the information sharing process, information
sent or received should not be manifested or else accuracy and mutual expectation on
information would not be achieved as the information shared can be considered useless in
an organization. In other words, the loss of usefulness or value of the leaked information
damages the integrity of information sharing.
As such, with the above negative outcomes, IL and unintentional leakage would cause
information sharing disruption in an organization. In other words, leakage negatively
affects information sharing integrity and this was concluded by the firms in this study.
Firms that encounter higher frequency of leakages will cause negative impact to their
information sharing integrity. Hence, appropriate measures are required to mitigate the
effects of information leakages on information sharing integrity.
5.3 How information leakage can be mitigated?
The analysis of the results showed that there were several approaches/strategies to risk
(information leakage) reduction measures reported by the case companies. These mitigation
strategies are human governance measures that could be categorized as fostering OEC and
information security culture. Human governance refers to human beings guided by a
common set of principles inherent in every human being; these unwritten principles are built
into each and every human irrespective of color or creed, to help human differentiate
between right and wrong and how to treat each fellow human being (Salleh, 2016).
Human governance encompasses ethics and culture because through its practice, it acts
as a moral compass which can eventually bring out integrity which is a symbol of inner
state of values. Human internal character needs to be nurtured in order to encourage
integrity. OEC reflects the shared perceptions held by employees regarding the
organization’s norms, policies, practices and procedures (Nedkovski et al., 2017). OEC
facilitates ethical behavior in organizations in response to ethical dilemma especially caused
by employees. On the other hand, information security culture reflects the way of doing
things around the information security, including creation of an environment that fosters
and nurtures shared security basic assumption, attitudes and beliefs, value and knowledge
in a given organization (Schlienger and Teufel, 2002; Da Veiga and Martins, 2015).
Information security culture shapes employee’s attitude and behaviors toward information
security in the long run (Chen et al., 2015).
5.3.1 Organizational ethical climate (OEC). The case companies relied on OEC as shared
perception on what correct behavior is and how ethical situations should be handled in an
organization. This synchronizes with the notion of OEC in literature of Victor and Cullen
(1987, 1988). Ethical climate influences both the decision-making and subsequent behavior
in response to ethical dilemmas (Hsieh and Wang, 2016; Martin and Cullen, 2006; Simha and
Cullen, 2012). Victor and Cullen (1988) highlighted that there are five types of ethical climate
that exist in companies in order to mitigate employees deliberate disclosure of confidential
information to unauthorized parties. Our findings reveal that the facilitation of ethical
behavior in each case company differs from one another. The reason is the companies have
different locus analysis of ethical climate. As such, in the following section, we discuss
the mapping of our interview findings with the ethical climate-locus of analysis. For clarity,
the types of ethical climate and the division of the analysis locus will be based on Victor and
Cullen (1988) as shown in Table III.
Instrumental. Leakage of critical information usually occurs through employee personal
greed rather bringing benefits to the organization. To prevent unethical employees
breaching confidential information intentionally in a company, instrumental ethical climate
might be legitimized by the self-interest behavior prevalent in workplace. Likewise, the

decision has been made that takes everyone’s interests into account to serve the company’s
interests. Employee’s prime purpose is to ultimately serve their self-interest, also it is his/her
sense of obligation to others. For example, Companies E offer progressive reward systems
which motivated employees to work at higher levels of productivity in order to be more
effective to achieve its goals in long-term future.
Caring. Employee’s jealousy of others or feeling vindictive for any reasons also caused IL
in an organization. In the high-profile data breaches that frequently damage a company’s
reputation and profits, caring ethical climate is one of the most desired climate by
employees. Individuals perceive that decisions should be based on an overarching concern
for the well-being of others in organization. The general manager of Company A suggested
that creation of a great working environment that makes employees feel a part of it can
mitigate employee’s jealousy or feeling vindictive of others. Therefore, employees are willing
to put much time and energy into the job and hard work generates loyalty. For these reasons
human behavioral cause for IL can be reduced.
Independence. The employee is guided by their own personal ethics in an organization.
The most important concern is that each person’s perception of information leakage is
unique and different from one another. The general manager of Company A explained that
many of the employees believe that even though they had intentionally leak information for
personal gain, they can still get away from disciplinary action. To mitigate the leakage of
information in workplace, employees must have high personal moral value with minimal
regard for external forces or outside influence on ethical quandaries. Independence ethical
climate sometimes is suitable in this case (e.g. for Company A). The decisions are made
based on careful consideration by the employees themselves on what is right and wrong
behavior before they executed their actions.
Rules. The analysis of the results from the Companies A, C and D saw strict policies
and procedures in place that prohibit employees from communicating critical information
to unauthorized parties. In the rules ethics climate, organizational decisions are perceived
as being guided by a strong and pervasive set of policies and procedures. Employees
follow operating practices under strict organization policies and procedures. The chances
are likely that these rules will be followed by everyone in the organization. The rules
ensured all employees are doing the right thing to prevent outrageous workplace
behavior. These policies and procedures are to assist employees in understanding the
difference between “right” and “wrong” to prevent unethical behavior. Respondents
emphasized that to reduce the risk of IL, employees act in an ethical manner guided by the
organizational policies and procedures.
Law and code. In a continued effort to strengthen law and ethical code climates, the case
companies are responsible for interpreting confidentiality restrictions imposed by laws and
statutes to all levels of employee. For example, human resource officer from Company C
revealed that they implemented “criminal code” to prevent employees or former employees
from leaking confidential information to unauthorized parties. Besides, the company has a
comprehensive code of conduct which can provide extra protection for information assets
and can serve to keep out legal trouble. Hence, employees are expected to strictly follow

Locus of analysis
Local locus

Ethical theory

Individual locus

Egoism
Benevolence
Principle

Instrumental (E)
Caring (A)
Independence (A)

Rules (A, C, D)

Human factors
in information
leakage

1257

Cosmopolitan locus

Law and code (C)

Table III.
Five common
empirical derivatives
of ethical climate

IMDS
119,6

1258

legal or professional standards especially decision maker who must take into account all
relevant considerations before action.
5.3.2 Information security culture. Our findings also reveal another important mitigation
approach, i.e. information security culture. Participants in this research reported that
information breaches are often caused by employees’ negligence or ignorance of information
sharing, resulting in large financial losses for organizations. The case companies asserted
that information security culture will minimize unintentional leakage. This finding echoes
the same tune as AlHogail (2015). Through information security culture, appropriate
information security beliefs and values that guide employee behavior will be constructed
when interacting with information assets and IT systems. Hence, this helps minimize
unintentional leakage.
Several of the case companies stated that information security policies and procedures are
to protect the confidentiality, integrity and availability of the information assets. For instance,
Company A developed an information classification to limit access information and facilitate
more efficient information exchange activities. Information classification would classify
information into three confidential levels (confidential, restricted and internal use) and public
level. Based on the information confidential levels, employees have comprehensive good
practice guidance about the appropriate information that can be shared.
Another example of information security culture is the setting up of an information access
policy, which is allowing only limited number of persons to access such information in the
company. Company C creates and enforces that a strict access policy could easily monitor the
activities of these employees and make use of information effectively. For example, user
activity monitoring was used by Company C to deter user access to the files and track in detail
any privileged user activity. An automated screen locks down after unauthorized user
accessed the network. This system appears to be useful to tackle network vulnerability that
enhances processing, transmission and storage information to authorized users.
Moreover, Company D also recommended enforcement of strong password policy to
enhance safeguard of company devices. The company creates and enforces strong
password policy to enhance its computer security. Passwords provide strong protection
against employees who are not as knowledgeable about proper business information
security precautions. The respondent from Company D further reiterated that in fact, secret
passwords have always been used for validating user identity. Therefore, Company D
emphasizes password setting on specific document as a safeguard device to prevent
information leakage.
In addition, fostering information security culture through sufficient training and proper
education is also important to inoculate such security consciousness at all levels of
employees. The case companies mentioned that it is important to understand the types of
risk behaviors associated and make it as simple as possible through education, training and
awareness programs. Besides, companies must ensure employees’ participation in relevant
programs to keep abreast with information security. It is good enough to provide a security
checklist to guide employees follow policies and procedures. All these programs assist
organizations in creating and sustaining a security conscious culture to mitigate
unintentional leakage.
In sum, clear expectations of appropriate behaviors of employees need to be thoroughly
embedded in information security control. Information security culture increased awareness
of unintentional leakage issues and reinforces an implicit adherence to security conduct.
6. Managerial implications and proposed framework
The findings from this study give valuable managerial implications. First, the findings
imply that managers of companies must be aware of the key factors of human misbehavior

and perceptual weaknesses could trigger information leakage. The human factor plays a
very important role in information sharing, especially, when companies have weak internal
controls. By engaging in information sharing, companies increase the risk that confidential
information might be intentionally or unintentionally leaked to unauthorized parties. Risks
from human activities are dangerous to information assets, especially from those who are
within the organization, i.e. the insiders. This is because insiders will know how, when and
where to attack and how to cover their tracks. IL is caused by malicious insiders with
intentional behavior to leak information. Unintentional leakage is caused by accidental
insiders who do not have intention to leak information but have acted inappropriately due to
perceptual errors.
The second implication is that managers of companies need to be aware of the harmful
effects of information leakage that can seriously affect information sharing integrity. The critical
information disclosed may flow outside organizational borders in an uncontrolled manner
resulting in loss of information value. Thus, intentional and unintentional leakages by insiders
would disrupt information sharing in an organization. It is imperative for managers to be
cognizant and mindful of insiders’ threat. Hence, to overcome information leakage by insiders,
mitigation on human factors needs to be undertaken by managers. Human factors should be
examined in the context of governance (hard and soft measures) in information sharing.
Interestingly, our findings imply that managers and practitioners should foster OEC and
information security culture because they are useful to promote diffusion of central norms
and values which can lead to an increased collective awareness of leakage issues. This
corresponds to the hard and soft measures of human governance. Foremost, companies can
benefit by establishing this coherent human governance structure, i.e. ethical climate and
information security culture, as these indirectly contribute to information sharing integrity
by means of mitigating intentional and unintentional leakages.
These governance measures are imperative for managers and practitioners to combat
leakage issues. To address IL, we advocate managers to foster OEC to shape and guide
employees’ acceptable behavior. This is because only through these collective ethical norms,
employees’ purposeful disclosure of sensitive information can be countered. For example,
managers can create a great working environment (caring ethics), offer progressive reward
system (instrumental ethics), have strict policies and procedures (rules ethics) and implement
criminal code (law and code ethics) to foster conducive OEC to nurture employees’ behavior. On
the other hand, we advocate managers to implement an information security culture, e.g. setup
information access and password policies to safeguard information assets from accidental loss
through unexpected system failure or human error. Companies can also organize frequent
training and education to instill information security conscious in all levels of employees.
Noting the above, societies at large could benefit from employees who would inculcate or
spill over good organizational ethical culture to influence their private homes. Good ethical
influences in homes could multiply to schools by school going children or to workplaces by
family members who work in other organizations. Slowly but surely, a pervasive ethical
climate would gain a foothold in daily lives making ethical behavior second nature. Good
ethics should promote a society which is clean from corruption.
Even information security culture could rub onto family members who would also bring
this culture to their workplace. The conscious decision to maintain an information secure
work environment augurs well for personal data protection similar to the hard measure of
personal safety protection.
The suggestions by the five companies to introduce organization ethical culture and
information security culture reflect the advocacy in literature. Therefore, this research has
bridged research and practice. The value-added impact of these advocacies is the multiplier
effect of trust and commerce. When commerce is surrounded by mutual trust, it is expected
that business would flourish with lower transaction costs.

Human factors
in information
leakage

1259

IMDS
119,6

1260

Finally, this study proposed an exploratory framework that characterizes the significant
relationships between information leakage and information sharing integrity.
Figure 5 presents a framework that characterizes information leakage, the devastating
consequences on information sharing integrity and the human governance measures that
help mitigate the iniquities of humans in sharing information. This framework could be a
guide for practitioners to overcome information leakage issue in information sharing. The
framework could also be further evaluated using empirical studies in future research to
investigate the correlation that exists between human governance measures and
information leakage.
7. Conclusion
This study adds value to the existing research and literature by highlighting the importance
of human governance through fostering OEC and information security culture in mitigating
information leakage to achieve information sharing integrity, especially when companies
have weak internal controls in information sharing. Practically, this study contributes to the
industry and business that are striving toward solving the mounting problem of
information leakage. Theoretically, this study adds value to the existing literature by raising
the human factors such as the behavioral perspective of malicious insiders and cognitive
perspective of accidental insiders, links to appropriate mitigation or governance strategies
to pre-empt information leakage. Human factors and human governance deserve more
research attention so managers and practitioners could take appropriate strategies to avert
information leakage in order to achieve efficient and effective information sharing. This
paper also contributes a research framework which could be a guide to overcome
information leakage issue in information sharing.
This research is not without limitations. The current study involved MNCs/MNEs
operating in Malaysia, while companies in other countries may have different ethical climate
and information sharing culture (ISC). Thus, for future research, it will be good to replicate
the study in a larger geographic region to verify the findings and insights of this research.
We also highly recommend that inter-organizational information sharing of the case MNEs/
MNCs should be solicited for further details when extending this study in the near future.
This would allow the researcher to discover new insights into mitigating the impact of
information leakage among the two parties in information sharing collaboration especially
in supply chain integration. Besides, the applicability of a large-scale survey to verify the
exploratory insights of this research and triangulate (two or more methods) its findings are
suggested. Future research could possibly investigate the correlation between IL and
unintentional leakage that can be addressed by OEC and ISC separately in order to achieve
information sharing integrity.

Organizational Ethical
Climate

Intentional
Leakage
Information Sharing
Integrity

Figure 5.
Proposed theoretical
framework

Unintentional
Leakage

Information Security
Culture

References
Ahmad, A., Tscherning, H., Bosua, R. and Scheepers, R. (2015), “Guarding against the erosion of
competitive advantage: a knowledge leakage mitigation model”, paper presented at the Thirty
Sixth International Conference on Information Systems, Fort Worth 2015, Fort Worth, TX,
available at: https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/96df/da64716fb8016f366c1b0a28b409440aeb56.pdf
Al Hogail, A. (2015), “Cultivating and assessing an organizational information security culture: an
empirical study”, International Journal of Security and Its Applications, Vol. 9 No. 7, pp. 163-178.
Al Hogail, A. and Mirza, A. (2014), “Information security culture: a definition and a literature review”,
2014 World Congress on Computer Applications and Information Systems, IEEE, pp. 1-7.
Alneyadi, S., Elankayer, S. and Vallipuram, M. (2016), “A survey on data leakage prevention systems”,
Journal of Network and Computer Applications, Vol. 62 No. 2016, pp. 137-152.
Anand, K.S. and Goyal, M. (2009), “Strategic information management under leakage in a supply
chain”, Management Science, Vol. 55 No. 3, pp. 438-452.
Barratt, M., Choi, T.Y. and Li, M. (2011), “Qualitative case studies in operations management: trends,
research outcomes, and future research implications”, Journal of Operations Management,
Vol. 29 No. 4, pp. 329-342.
Bureau, F.I.P. (2013), “Unintentional insider threats: a foundational study”, available at: http://resources.
sei.cmu.edu/asset_files/TechnicalNote/2013_004_001_58748.pdf (accessed August 28, 2017).
Business Monitor International (BMI) (2017), “Multinational companies in Malaysia online database”,
BMI Research – A Fitch Group Company, available at: www.fitchsolutions.com/bmi-research
(accessed September 4, 2017).
Cannella, S., Framinan, J.M., Bruccoleri, M., Barbosa-Póvoa, A.P. and Relvas, S. (2015), “The effect of
inventory record inaccuracy in information exchange supply chains”, European Journal of
Operational Research, Vol. 243 No. 1, pp. 120-129.
Cappelli, D.M., Moore, A.P. and Trzeciak, R.F. (2012), The CERT Guide to Insider Threats: How to
Prevent, Detect, and Respond to Information Technology Crimes (Theft, Sabotage, Fraud),
Pearson Education, Upper Saddle River, NJ.
Cappelli, D.M., Moore, A.P., Trzeciak, R.F. and Shimeall, T.J. (2009), “Common sense guide to
prevention and detection of insider threat”, CERT Insider Threat Study Team, Carnegie Mellon
University, Pittsburgh, PA, available at: https://pdfs.semanticscholar.org/0a54/b1b543b32
e8ce57887c149c2bf92d986b1c2.pdf (accessed September 10, 2017).
Chen, Y., Ramamurthy, K. and Wen, K.W. (2015), “Impacts of comprehensive information security
programs on information security culture”, Journal of Computer Information Systems, Vol. 55
No. 3, pp. 11-19.
Cheng, L., Li, Y., Li, W., Holm, E. and Zhai, Q. (2013), “Understanding the violation of is security policy
in organizations: an integrated model based on social control and deterrence theory”, Computers
and Security, Vol. 39 No. 2013, pp. 447-459.
Colwill, C. (2009), “Human factors in information security: the insider threat – who can you trust these
days?”, Information Security Technical Report, Vol. 14 No. 4, pp. 186-196.
Creswell, J.W. (2014), Research Design: Qualitative, Quantitative, and Mixed Methods Approaches, Sage
Publications, Thousand Oaks, CA.
Crossler, R.E., Johnston, A.C., Lowry, P.B., Hu, Q., Warkentin, M. and Baskerville, R. (2013), “Future
directions for behavioral information security research”, Computers and Security, Vol. 32 No. 1,
pp. 90-101.
Dai, H., Li, J., Yan, N. and Zhou, W. (2016), “Bullwhip effect and supply chain costs with low-and highquality information on inventory shrinkage”, European Journal of Operational Research,
Vol. 250 No. 2, pp. 457-469.
Da Mota Pedrosa, A., Näslund, D. and Jasmand, C. (2012), “Logistics case study based research:
towards higher quality”, International Journal of Physical Distribution & Logistics Management,
Vol. 42 No. 3, pp. 275-295.

Human factors
in information
leakage

1261

IMDS
119,6

1262

Da Veiga, A. and Eloff, J.H. (2010), “A framework and assessment instrument for information security
culture”, Computers & Security, Vol. 29 No. 2, pp. 196-207.
Da Veiga, A. and Martins, N. (2015), “Improving the information security culture through monitoring
and implementation actions illustrated through a case study”, Computers & Security, Vol. 49
No. 2015, pp. 162-176.
DiCicco-Bloom, B. and Crabtree, B.F. (2006), “The qualitative research interview”, Medical Education,
Vol. 40 No. 4, pp. 314-321.
Dimotakis, N., Ilies, R. and Mount, M.K. (2008), “Intentional negative behaviors at work”, Research
in Personnel and Human Resources Management, Emerald Group Publishing Limited,
Amsterdam, Vol. 27, pp. 247-277.
Durugbo, C., Tiwari, A., Alcock and J.R. (2014), “Managing integrated information flow for delivery
reliability”, Industrial Management & Data Systems, Vol. 114 No. 4, pp. 628-651.
Economic Transformation Programme (2016), “More MNCs keen to take advantage of country’s
location”, available at: http://etp.pemandu.gov.my/Related_Stories-@More_MNCs_keen_to_
take_advantage_of_countrys_location.aspx (accessed August 10, 2017).
Eisenhardt, K.M. and Graebner, M.E. (2007), “Theory building from cases: opportunities and
challenges”, Academy of Management Journal, Vol. 50 No. 1, pp. 25-32.
Endsley, M.R. (1995), “A taxonomy of situation awareness errors”, Human Factors in Aviation
Operations, Vol. 3 No. 2, pp. 287-292.
Fawcett, S.E., Osterhaus, P., Magnan, G.M., Brau, J.C. and McCarter, M.W. (2007), “Information sharing
and supply chain performance: the role of connectivity and willingness”, Supply Chain
Management: An International Journal, Vol. 12 No. 5, pp. 358-368.
Greitzer, F.L. and Frincke, D.A. (2010), “Combining traditional cyber security audit data with
psychosocial data: towards predictive modeling for insider threat mitigation”, Insider Threats in
Cyber Security, pp. 85-113.
Greitzer, F.L. and Hohimer, R.E. (2011), “Modeling human behavior to anticipate insider attacks”,
Journal of Strategic Security, Vol. 4 No. 2, pp. 2025-2034.
Greitzer, F.L., Moore, A.P., Cappelli, D.M., Andrews, D.H., Carroll, L.A. and Hull, T.D. (2008),
“Combating the insider cyber threat”, IEEE Security & Privacy, Vol. 6 No. 1, pp. 61-64.
Greitzer, F.L., Strozer, J.R., Cohen, S., Moore, A.P., Mundie, D. and Cowley, J. (2014), “Analysis of
unintentional insider threats deriving from social engineering exploits”, 2014 IEEE Security and
Privacy Workshops, pp. 236-250.
Greitzer, F.L., Strozer, J., Cohen, S., Bergey, J., Cowley, J., Moore, A. and Mundie, D. (2014),
“Unintentional insider threat: contributing factors, observables, and mitigation strategies”,
Proceedings of the 2014 IEEE 47th Hawaii International Conference on System Sciences,
San Jose, CA, pp. 2025-2034.
Gruys, M.L. and Sackett, P.R. (2003), “Investigating the dimensionality of counterproductive work
behavior”, International Journal of Selection and Assessment, Vol. 11 No. 1, pp. 30-42.
Guo, K.H., Yuan, Y., Archer, N.P. and Connelly, C.E. (2011), “Understanding nonmalicious security
violations in the workplace: a composite behavior model”, Journal of Management Information
Systems, Vol. 28 No. 2, pp. 203-236.
Haines, R. and Leonard, L.N.K. (2007), “Individual characteristics and ethical decision-making in an IT
context”, Industrial Management and Data Systems, Vol. 107 No. 1, pp. 5-20.
Harhoff, D., Henkel, J. and Hippel, E. (2003), “Profiting from voluntary information spillovers: how users
benefit by freely revealing their innovations”, Research Policy, Vol. 32 No. 10, pp. 1753-1769.
Herriott, R.E. and Firestone, W.A. (1983), “Multisite qualitative policy research: optimizing description
and generalizability”, Educational Researcher, Vol. 12 No. 2, pp. 14-19.
Hoecht, A. and Trott, P. (2006), “Outsourcing, information leakage and the risk of losing technologybased competencies”, European Business Review, Vol. 18 No. 5, pp. 395-412.

Hsieh, H.H. and Wang, Y.D. (2016), “Linking perceived ethical climate to organizational deviance: the
cognitive, affective, and attitudinal mechanisms”, Journal of Business Research, Vol. 69 No. 9,
pp. 3600-3608.
Hunker, J. and Probst, C.W. (2011), “Insiders and insider threats: an overview of definitions and
mitigation techniques”, Journal of Wireless Mobile Networks, Ubiquitous Computing, and
Dependable Applications, Vol. 2 No. 1, pp. 4-27.
Huong Tran, T.T., Childerhouse, P. and Deakins, E. (2016), “Supply chain information sharing:
challenges and risk mitigation strategies”, Journal of Manufacturing Technology Management,
Vol. 27 No. 8, pp. 1102-1126.
Huth, C.L., Chadwick, D.W., Claycomb, W.R. and You, I. (2013), “Guest editorial: a brief overview of
data leakage and insider threats”, Information Systems Frontiers, Vol. 15 No. 1, pp. 1-4.
InfoWatch (2016), “Global Data Leakage Report, 2016”, available at: https://infowatch.com/node/2654/
done?sid=3412 (accessed August 10, 2017).
Kajzer, M., D’Arcy, J., Crowell, C.R., Striegel, A. and Van Bruggen, D. (2014), “An exploratory
investigation of message-person congruence in information security awareness campaigns”,
Computers and Security, Vol. 43 No. 2, pp. 64-76.
Kembro, J., Näslund, D. and Olhager, J. (2017), “Information sharing across multiple supply chain tiers:
a Delphi study on antecedents”, International Journal of Production Economics, Vol. 193 No. C,
pp. 77-86.
Kwak, J.K. and Gavirneni, S. (2015), “Impact of information errors on supply chain performance”,
Journal of the Operational Research Society, Vol. 66 No. 2, pp. 288-298.
Kwon, I.W.G. and Suh, T. (2005), “Trust, commitment and relationships in supply chain management: a
path analysis”, Supply Chain Management: An International Journal, Vol. 10 No. 1, pp. 26-33.
Lee, H.L. and Whang, S. (2000), “Information sharing in a supply chain”, International Journal of
Manufacturing Technology and Management, Vol. 1 No. 1, pp. 79-93.
Li, L. (2002), “Information sharing in a supply chain with horizontal competition”, Management Science,
Vol. 48 No. 9, pp. 1196-1212.
Liang, H. and Xue, Y. (2010), “Understanding security behaviors in personal computer usage:
a threat avoidance perspective”, Journal of the Association for Information Systems, Vol. 11
No. 7, pp. 394-413.
Liginlal, D., Sim, I. and Khansa, L. (2009), “How significant is human error as a cause of privacy
breaches? An empirical study and a framework for error management”, Computers and Security,
Vol. 28 No. 3, pp. 215-228.
McCormick, M. (2008), “Data theft: a prototypical insider threat”, Insider Attack and Cyber Security,
Vol. 39 No. 1, pp. 53-68.
Mack, N., Woodsong, C., MacQueen, K.M., Guest, G. and Namey, E. (2005), Qualitative Research
Methods: A Data Collectors Field Guide, Family Health International, Durham, NC.
Magklaras, G.B. and Furnell, S.M. (2005), “A preliminary model of end user sophistication for insider
threat prediction in IT systems”, Computers and Security, Vol. 24 No. 5, pp. 371-380.
Marcus, B., Anita Taylor, O., Hastings, S.E., Sturm, A. and Weigelt, O. (2016), “The structure of
counterproductive work behavior: a review, a structural meta-analysis, and a primary study”,
Journal of Management, Vol. 42 No. 1, pp. 203-233, available at: https://doi.org/10.1177/0149206
313503019
Martin, K.D. and Cullen, J.B. (2006), “Continuities and extensions of ethical climate theory:
a meta-analytic review”, Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 69 No. 2, pp. 175-194.
MDBC (2017), “Malaysia”, Malaysian Dutch Business Council, Kuala Lumpur, available at: www.mdbc.
com.my/information/country-information/malaysia/ (accessed August 3, 2017).
MIDA (2017), “Why Malaysia?”, Malaysian Investment Development Authority, available at: www.
mida.gov.my/home/why-malaysia/posts/ (accessed August 4, 2017).

Human factors
in information
leakage

1263

IMDS
119,6

Miles, M.B. and Huberman, A.M. (1994), Qualitative Data Analysis: An Expanded Sourcebook, Sage
Publications, Beverly Hills, CA.
Mills, A.J., Durepos, G. and Wiebe, E. (2010), Multiple-Case Designs: Encyclopedia of case Study
Research, Sage Publications, London, available at: http://methods.sagepub.com/reference/encycof-case-study-research/n216.xml

1264

Ministry of Finance Malaysia (2016), “2017 Economic Report”, available at: www.treasury.gov.my/
index.php/en/economy/economic-report.html (accessed August 10, 2017).
Mohamed, S., Mynors, D., Grantham, A., Walsh, K. and Chan, P. (2006), “Understanding one aspect of
the knowledge leakage concept: people”, Proceedings of the European and Mediterranean
Conference on Information Systems, July 6–7, Alicante.
Molok, N.N.A., Ahmad, A. and Chang, S. (2010), “Understanding the factors of information leakage
through online social networking to safeguard organizational information”, in Bolan, D.C. (Ed.),
8th Australian Information Security Management Conference, Perth, Security Research Centre,
Edith Cowan University, available at: http://works.bepress.com/nurul_abdulmolok/1/ (accessed
August 25, 2017).
Moore, A., Cappelli, D., Caron, T., Shaw, E. and Trzeciak, R. (2009), “Insider theft of intellectual property
for business advantage: a preliminary model”, CEUR Workshop Proceedings, Vol. 1 No. 469,
pp. 1-21.
Nayar, M.K. (2004), “Information integrity (I*I): the next quality frontier”, Total Quality Management &
Business Excellence, Vol. 15 Nos 5-6, pp. 743-751.
Nedkovski, V., Guerci, M., De Battisti, F. and Siletti, E. (2017), “Organizational ethical climates and
employee’s trust in colleagues, the supervisor, and the organization”, Journal of Business
Research, Vol. 71 No. 2017, pp. 19-26.
Nishat Faisal, M., Banwet, D.K. and Shankar, R. (2007), “Information risks management in supply
chains: an assessment and mitigation framework”, Journal of Enterprise Information
Management, Vol. 20 No. 6, pp. 677-699.
Nurse, J.R., Buckley, O., Legg, P.A., Goldsmith, M., Creese, S., Wright, G.R. and Whitty, M. (2014),
“Understanding insider threat: a framework for characterising attacks”, 2014 IEEE Security and
Privacy Workshops, May, pp. 214-228.
Okere, I., Van Niekerk, J. and Carroll, M. (2012), “Assessing information security culture: a critical
analysis of current approaches”, 2012 Information Security for South Africa, IEEE, pp. 1-8.
Olzak, T. (2010), “Data leakage: catching water in a sieve”, Blogpost, available at: http://blogs.csoonline.
com/1187/DataLeakage (accessed June 25, 2017).
Omar, M. (2015), “Insider threats: detecting and controlling malicious insiders”, New Threats and
Countermeasures in Digital Crime and Cyber Terrorism, IGI Global, PA, pp. 162-172.
Orgill, G.L., Bailey, M.G. and Orgill, P.M. (2004), “The urgency for effective user privacy-education to
counter social engineering attacks on secure computer systems”, paper presented at the
Proceedings of the 5th Conference on Information Technology Education, Salt Lake City, UT,
pp. 177–181.
Padayachee, K. (2016), “An assessment of opportunity-reducing techniques in information security: an
insider threat perspective”, Decision Support Systems, Vol. 92, pp. 47-56, doi: 10.1016/j.dss.2016.09.012
Paulus, T., Lester, J. and Dempster, P. (2014), Digital Tools for Qualitative Research, SAGE Publications,
London.
Rhee, H.S., Kim, C. and Ryu, Y.U. (2009), “Self-efficacy in information security: its influence
on end users’ information security practice behaviour”, Computers & Security, Vol. 28 No. 8,
pp. 816-826.
Ritala, P., Olander, H., Michailova, S. and Husted, K. (2015), “Knowledge sharing, knowledge leaking and
relative innovation performance: an empirical study”, Technovation, Vol. 35 No. 2015, pp. 22-31.
Robinson, S.L. and Bennett, R.J. (1995), “A typology of deviant workplace behaviors: a
multidimensional scaling study”, Academy of Management Journal, Vol. 38 No. 2, pp. 555-572.

Sackett, P.R. and DeVore, C.J. (2001), “Counterproductive behaviors at work”, Handbook of Industrial,
Work, and Organizational Psychology, Sage Publications, London, Vol. 1, pp. 145-164.
Salleh, A. (2016), “Human governance: bringing the meaning of integrity in the life of professional
accountants”, working paper, Putra Graduate School of Business, Selangor.

Human factors
in information
leakage

Saunders, M., Lewis, P. and Thornhill, A. (2009), Research Methods for Business Students, Pearson
Education, Harlow.
Schlienger, T. and Teufel, S. (2002), “Information security culture: the socio-cultural dimension in
information security management”, IFIP TC11 International Conference on Information Security,
Cairo, Vol. 15, pp. 191-201.
Schrader, S. (1989), “Informal technology transfer between companies: information leakage or
know-how trading?”, Working Paper No. WP# 3007-89-BPS, Sloan School of Management,
MIT, Cambridge.
Sharma, S. and Routroy, S. (2016), “Modeling information risk in supply chain using Bayesian
networks”, Journal of Enterprise Information Management, Vol. 29 No. 2, pp. 238-254.
Simha, A. and Cullen, J.B. (2012), “Ethical climates and their effects on organizational outcomes:
implications from the past and prophecies for the future”, The Academy of Management
Perspectives, Vol. 26 No. 4, pp. 20-34.
Sonderegger, T. (2007), Cliffs Quick Review: Psychology, Wiley Publishing, New York, NY.
Stanton, J.M., Stam, K.R., Mastrangelo, P. and Jolton, J. (2005), “Analysis of end user security
behaviors”, Computers and Security, Vol. 24 No. 2, pp. 124-133.
Stoneburner, G., Goguen, A. and Feringa, A. (2002), “Risk management guide for information technology
systems”, National Institute of Standards and Technology SP800-3, US Government Printing
Office, available at: http://csrc.nist.gov/publications/nistpubs/800–30/ sp800–30.pdf (2002)
Sumner, J., Cantiello, J., Cortelyou-Ward, K. and Noblin, A.M. (2012), “Information sharing among
health care employers: using technology to create an advantageous culture of sharing”, Annual
Review of Health Care Management: Strategy and Policy Perspectives on Reforming Health
Systems, Emerald Group Publishing, Bingley, pp. 123-141.
Tan, K.H., Wong, W.P. and Chung, L. (2016), “Information and knowledge leakage in supply chain”,
Information Systems Frontiers, Vol. 18 No. 3, pp. 621-638.
The Star Online (2016), “Facing cyberattacks in 2016 and beyond”, The Star Online, available at:
www.thestar.com.my/tech/tech-opinion/2016/01/28/facing-cyber-attacks-in-2016-and-beyond/
(accessed January 1, 2017).
The Star Online (2017), “Stronger economic growth for 2017”, The Star Online, available at: www.
thestar.com.my/business/business-news/2017/07/04/stronger-economic-growth-for-2017/
(accessed August 10, 2017).
The World Bank Group (2017), “Doing Business 2017: equal opportunity for all”, available at: www.
doingbusiness.org/reports/global-reports/doing-business-2017 (accessed August 10, 2017).
Tseng, F.C. and Fan, Y.J. (2011), “Exploring the influence of organizational ethical climate on
knowledge management”, Journal of Business Ethics, Vol. 101 No. 2, pp. 325-342.
Victor, B. and Cullen, J.B. (1987), “A theory and measure of ethical climate in organizations”, Research
in Corporate Social Performance and Policy, Vol. 9 No. 1, pp. 51-71.
Victor, B. and Cullen, J.B. (1988), “The organizational bases of ethical work climates”, Administrative
Science Quarterly, Vol. 33, pp. 101-125.
Voss, C., Tsikriktsis, N. and Frohlich, M. (2002), “Case research in operations management”,
International Journal of Operations and Production Management, Vol. 22 No. 2, pp. 195-219.
Warkentin, M. and Willison, R. (2009), “Behavioural and policy issues in information systems security:
the insider threat”, European Journal of Information Systems, Vol. 18 No. 2, pp. 1-20.
Willison, R. and Warkentin, M. (2013), “Beyond deterrence: an expanded view of employee computer
abuse”, MIS Quarterly, Vol. 37 No. 1, pp. 1-20.

1265

IMDS
119,6

Yin, R.K. (2009), Case Study Research: Design and Methods, Sage Publications, London.
Yin, R.K. (2013), Case Study Research: Design and Methods, Sage Publications, London.
Zhang, D.Y., Cao, X., Wang, L. and Zeng, Y. (2012), “Mitigating the risk of information leakage in a
two-level supply chain through optimal supplier selection”, Journal of Intelligent Manufacturing,
Vol. 23 No. 4, pp. 1351-1364.

1266

Zhang, D.Y., Zeng, Y., Wang, L., Li, H. and Geng, Y. (2011), “Modeling and evaluating information leakage
caused by inferences in supply chains”, Computers in Industry, Vol. 62 No. 3, pp. 351-363.

Further reading
American Psychological Association (2017), “Glossary of psychological terms”, available at: www.apa.
org/research/action/glossary.aspx?tab=2 (accessed September 18, 2017).
Creswell, J.W. and Inquiry, Q. (2007), Research Design: Choosing Among Five Approaches,
Sage Publications, London.
Hatala, J.P. and George Lutta, J. (2009), “Managing information sharing within an organizational
setting: a social network perspective”, Performance Improvement Quarterly, Vol. 21 No. 4,
pp. 5-33.
Jiang, X., Li, M., Gao, S., Bao, Y. and Jiang, F. (2013), “Managing knowledge leakage in strategic
alliances: the effects of trust and formal contracts”, Industrial Marketing Management, Vol. 42
No. 6, pp. 983-991.
United Nations Conference on Trade and Development (2016), “World Investment Prospects Survey
2014-2016”, available at: http://unctad.org/en/pages/publications/World-Investment-ProspectsSurvey.aspx (accessed August 10, 2017).

Appendix

Q1
Q2
Q3
Q4
Q5
Q6
Q7
Q8
Q9
Q10
Q11
Q12
Q13
Q14
Q15
Q16
Q17
Q18
Q19
Q20
Q21
Q22
Q23
Q24
Q25
Q26
Q27
Q28

What are your views about information sharing? Its benefits and perils
With regard to information leakages, were there any such occurrences in your company?
Did your company identify the perpetrator? Was the perpetrator a man or woman? Was he/she an
executive, manager or a senior manager?
What motivated the perpetrator to leak company data and information? What information was
leaked then?
How was the leakage dealt with by your company?
In your opinion, how could a company prevent information leakage?
Does your company have a code of ethics and what is the code about? How is this code communicated to
employees? How does the company deal with employees breaking such codes?
Has the code of ethics in anyway helped prevent or reduce information leakages? Has this code of ethics
stopped you from leaking information?
Why are such codes of ethics unable to stop information leakages?
What do you fear most to deter you from committing an unauthorized information leak? Do you think
your colleagues share this view?
Let us discuss information security culture or habits. Are you always mindful of information protection
and leakages?
How frequent does your company remind you to safeguard data and information? How does the
company communicate these reminders?
We just want to find out the reality of things. Do you really care about these reminders? Why?
Do you and your friends or colleagues talk about work (suppliers, contractors and customers) during tea
time and lunch hour?
What would stop you from talking about work during tea time and lunch hour?
Do you think it is possible to prevent information leakage? How and why? But is it practical?
Does your company educate you about risky behaviors that could unintentionally leak data and
information? In spite of such education, employees continue to show risky behaviors and put data at
risks. Why is this so? What could change these risk behaviors?
Who do you think are most likely to leak data and information? Could you profile perpetrators? Why?
Have you encountered repeat offenders?
What types of information are usually leaked? Could they be controlled?
How does your company respond to a leakage? Keep quiet about it. Officially announce in the company
bulletin board. “Leaked” such occurrences/incidences to employees through the grapevine. Hinting to
employees. What do you think your company was trying to achieve?
Do you think a company could stop a perpetrator before the information leakage occurs?
Do you think it is good and effective to give rewards to informers or “whistle blowers” or recipients of
such information before the perpetrator intentionally leaks information? Why?
Do you think data and information would be safer in the future?
How does your company foster the development of highly ethical, accountable and
professional behavior?
Would a more stringent data protection act be helpful to curb information leakage?
Do you think companies could criminalize (to declare illegal or to outlaw) information leakage
(intentional and unintentional) just like the Official Secrets Act? Is it practical?
Are there ways to detect an imminent data and information leakage?
One of the greatest irony is “we do not know when data or information is lost.” If this is true, how do we
then know when and to whom data and information is lost?

Corresponding author
Wai Peng Wong can be contacted at: wongwp@usm.my

For instructions on how to order reprints of this article, please visit our website:
www.emeraldgrouppublishing.com/licensing/reprints.htm
Or contact us for further details: permissions@emeraldinsight.com

Human factors
in information
leakage

1267

Table AI.
Interview questions

