Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering
https://doi.org/10.1007/s13369-021-05476-z

RESEARCH ARTICLE-COMPUTER ENGINEERING AND COMPUTER SCIENCE

P‑STORE: Extension of STORE Methodology to Elicit Privacy
Requirements
Md Tarique Jamal Ansari1 · Abdullah Baz2 · Hosam Alhakami3 · Wajdi Alhakami4 · Rajeev Kumar5,6
Raees Ahmad Khan5

·

Received: 16 June 2020 / Accepted: 18 February 2021
© King Fahd University of Petroleum & Minerals 2021

Abstract
Implementing security and privacy requirements at every level of the software development cycle is imperative for ensuring
optimum usability as well as the users’ satisfaction. Software development must consider and comply effectively with the
risks involved in the privacy and protection of confidential data. This research study endeavors to integrate the standards
of data protection along with the Security Threat Oriented Requirements Engineering (STORE) methodology in order to
recognize the potential threats to privacy requirements. The proposed extension of the STORE methodology, called the
P-STORE, is validated by a case study of the Healthcare Management Software (HMS) system project. Furthermore, we
have used the integrated fuzzy AHP with fuzzy TOPSIS technique for the usability assessment of different privacy requirements engineering approaches including the P-STORE methodology. The study demonstrates that the P-STORE approach
has the capability to elicit more efficient privacy requirements and that it allows the software engineer to arrange privacy
requirements efficaciously.
Keywords Privacy requirements engineering · STORE · P-STORE · Healthcare management software · Fuzzy logic · Fuzzy
AHP-TOPSIS

1 Introduction
We are witnessing the biggest change in the evolution of
digital technology at present with the world undergoing a
* Rajeev Kumar
rs0414@gmail.com
1

Department of Computer Application, Integral University,
Lucknow 226026, Uttar Pradesh, India

2

Department of Computer Engineering, College of Computer
and Information Systems, Umm Al-Qura University,
Makkah 21955, Saudi Arabia

3

Department of Computer Science, College of Computer
and Information Systems, Umm Al-Qura University,
Makkah 21955, Saudi Arabia

4

Department of Information Technology, College
of Computers and Information Technology, Taif University,
P.O. Box 11099, Taif 21944, Saudi Arabia

5

Department of Information Technology, Babasaheb Bhimrao
Ambedkar University, Lucknow 226025, Uttar Pradesh, India

6

Department of Computer Application, Shri Ramswaroop
Memorial University, Barabanki 225003, Uttar Pradesh,
India

transformation from the paper-based system to a fully digital
system. To meet the rising demands of this evolution, several methodologies, techniques and frameworks have been
invented by the practitioners so as to facilitate the development process of software applications. The web applications as well as different software are based upon several
Information Technology (IT)-enabled services of computers
and networks to store, manage, transfer, and upgrade data
across multiple sectors. Many digital technologies are steadily increasing in the global internet world, which now connect not only the digital devices but also a variety of intelligent and fully automated devices from our everyday lives,
including the embedded electronic chips, detectors, actuators
as well as wearable devices, to ensure simultaneous access
to knowledge [1]. Dependency on information technology
for business and many other sectors has seen a phenomenal
increase in the present era. Various organizations in the public as well as private sectors are now becoming extremely
dependent on information technology and its implementations to quickly achieve more benefits [2]. However, in
the same league, it is unfortunate to note that the volume
of cyber-attack is also rising exponentially. Moreover, this
has also created a demand for the production of defensive

13

Vol.:(0123456789)

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering

software applications to protect the systems from the external
threats. In this backdrop, preserving software privacy is one
of the major concerns for the practitioners while developing reliable and quality software systems. Another important
problem in this context is to ensure that features which assure
security as well as privacy of the users are strengthened at
the initial stages of application’s development process [3–6].
Considering and maintaining privacy at every level of
the software life-cycle is of utmost significance. However,
though there are various strategies that tackle security
requirements, very few mechanisms deal with the privacy
aspect of the issue [7]. Privacy requirements are integral
factors that must be reckoned in when building software
or system engineering requirements, particularly in highly
regulated domains of critical infrastructure sectors such as
financial services, healthcare, energy and others. Privacy
enforcement necessitates an organization to focus on engineering requirements authenticated by laws or regulations.
Privacy is an individual person’s capacity to monitor his
or her own knowledge. Privacy and security is important
in several domains, including healthcare and finance. The
identification and modeling of privacy requirements during
the preliminary phases of software application development
is essential for delivering a significant degree of privacy protection to stakeholders including the users. Maintaining software privacy along with preserving data security continues
to be a challenge for software professionals as information
systems become more complex and dispersed. Implementing
these programs not only poses technical obstacles but also
needs the compliance of privacy laws.
Privacy for healthcare applications has significant implications because the provision of service influences human
life, reputation and government’s policies [8]. Health Information technology plays a vital role in the present day
e-healthcare for maintaining the EHRs and also facilitating
the use of medical devices. The advancement and implementation of health information technology has increased
tremendously. The Institute of Medicine (IOM) study published in this context is a corroboration of the same [9].
In the present scenario, health information technology provides multiple ways to improve and transform healthcare
that includes: reducing human errors, enhancing clinical outcomes, promoting quality of treatment, increasing efficiencies in practice and monitoring the relevant data. However,
the processing and distribution of Electronic Healthcare
Records (EHRs) has raised privacy concerns for both the
patients and healthcare agencies [10].
Furthermore, employing Information and Communication
Technology (ICT) in healthcare is also a growing necessity as there are many positive benefits of it. These benefits can be seen in improving patient’s treatment, reducing
medical errors, sharing knowledge among healthcare professionals, improving usability, accessibility, consistency of

13

information, as well as enhancing the overall quality of services [11–13]. However, lack of sufficient security to maintain confidentiality, honesty and accessibility leads to possible threats in the HMS domain. Weak safety procedures and
weak awareness of risk management practices also need special attention. It is important to ensure that risks to privacy
are established in HMS. In addition, good industry practices
or standards in the healthcare setting, for example using ISO/
IEC 27002 (ISO 27799:2008) [14], Health Insurance Portability and Accountability Act (HIPAA) [15], Patient Safety
and Quality Improvement Act 2005 (PSQIA) [16], Health
Information Technology for Economic and Clinical Health
(HITECH) [17], Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) [18], General Data Protection Regulation GDPR [19], Data Protection Act (DPA) [20],
IT Act [21] and many other legislative acts, are imminently
needed to protect computer-based information assets. The
European Union’s GDPR enforced and replaced the Data
Protection Directive from 25 May 2018 [22]. It will enhance
data subjects’ privacy protection and enable organizations
and companies to work in alignment with its specified rules
[23]. At present, it is essential for the healthcare organizations to manage and secure patients’ information more than
ever before. In addition, the organizations must also manage
the risks as well as legal obligations involved in maintaining the patients’ personal records to satisfy the increasing
complexity of relevant data. Various nations have different
policies and legislation on data protection. Data protection
guidelines and laws in some of the countries are shown in
Fig. 1.
Developing a regulatory system that is capable of
addressing significant technical developments requires a
clearer perspective. Specific privacy regulations and standards still depend heavily on the government’s policies. However, the laws have not been deemed as effective enough
by the experts and the practitioners in the field. Many have
apprehensions about the discrepancy between the degree
of technological growth as well as the management of that
transformation through legislative mechanisms [24]. Danezis et al. [25] observed that in general, when implementing
the desired features, privacy and data protection characteristics are neglected by conventional engineering methods.
This negligence is caused and encouraged by the limitations
of the expertise and understanding of developers and data
controllers, as well as the lack of resources to recognize
privacy-by-design. Consequently, the difference between the
legislative framework for privacy and the available technical
implementation steps needs to be bridged [2, 25].
Against this backdrop, this research paper has provided
a preliminary extension of the STORE methodology [26]
called the P-STORE to address privacy requirements
for software system. P-STORE is designed to function
independently from STORE. However, our study also

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering

Fig. 1  Data privacy laws in some of the countries

establishes that it may be appropriate to use P-STORE
along with STORE methodology for enhanced efficacy.
While implementing P-STORE to add a non-exhaustive
collection of current engineering and law research, we
examined each phase of the original STORE process and
demonstrated the legal enforcement issues that could arise
in the process.
Furthermore, we have implemented the P-STORE methodology for a healthcare management software project. The
P-STORE methodology is anticipated to have the capability
to elicit the effective and well-organized privacy requirements, which is very important for any security-critical
software product. In this paper, a systematic evaluation process of the P-STORE methodology has been conducted in
an organized manner. A case study of HMS system that has
been alluded to demonstrates the provision of the P-STORE
methodology for privacy engineering. The implementation
of P-STORE methodology on an HMS system development
for the validation is a very challenging task. Full procedural
processes of P-STORE methodology were performed to
elicit complete as well as well-organized privacy requirements toward trustworthy HMS system development.
This research study has been envisioned as: Sect. 2 discusses different existing methods for the engineering of privacy requirements for software application. The overview of
the STORE procedure is discussed in Sect. 3. Section 4 deals
with extending the STORE procedure for the development of
privacy requirements engineering approach. The functional

framework of P-STORE methodology is presented in
Sect. 5. Thereafter, Sect. 6 establishes the application of the
P-STORE approach on a case study of a web-based software
project that is premised on the HMS. Section 7 presents
the analysis of the usability of six different PRE approaches
including the P-STORE methodology. Section 8 summarizes
and concludes this research paper.

2 Literature Review
Several methods have been proposed for evaluating privacy
requirements as well as strategies for privacy protection.
This section offers a review of some of the current strategies
to compare the appropriate data security criteria obtained
through our suggested P-STORE methodology with the suitable privacy enhancement strategies.
Baldassarre et al. [7] proposed a system called Privacy
Oriented Software Development (POSD) that can technically support application development by integrating privacy
protection and security requirements.
Jensen et al. [27] identified general privacy requirements
and evaluated how such requirements follow the existing
mechanisms and instructions. To accomplish this objective, they have implemented a well-structured methodology known as Structured Analysis Framework for Privacy
(STRAP). The framework was derived from the existing
requirements engineering research for comprehensive

13

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering

examination of privacy potential threats in design as well as
recursive preferences adjustments.
Mai et al. [5] implemented an existing methodology to
design security and privacy requirements. They proposed
a new privacy framework which includes a mitigation template as well as case template for misuse, to visually define
mitigation techniques and case criteria for misuse. They also
incorporated their methodology effectively into an organized
healthcare system project, and obtained industry standards.
Mead et al. [28] developed a framework for identifying
privacy specifications from a security specifications engineering perspective. They proposed a new extension to
SQUARE’s approach and platform to incorporate privacy
concerns, and recognize potential possibilities for a more
unified security and privacy requirements’ development
framework.
Deng et al. [29] presented a detailed model of privacy oriented risk analysis in software-controlled systems. The model
provided a structured approach for analyzing privacy-specific
risks. The methodology followed the STRIDE approach. For
a detailed interpretation, a system-oriented information management design was used in this study. This method emphasized on those features that the researchers should prioritize
and resolve. This was accomplished by identifying different
types of threats to privacy and by mapping them. This also
includes the elements in the program’s structure.
Spiekermann & Cranor [30] developed a framework
for software systems to consider privacy. They combined
perspectives from different territories of electronic privacy
research to include a holistic view of privacy engineering
and a hierarchical framework for issues of the discipline.
They examined privacy standards based on both historical
and contemporary privacy perceptions.
Kalloniatis et al. [31] produced the PriS approach for
engineering security requirements that incorporated data
protection requirements earlier into the design and development process. The PriS approach recognizes the effects
of organizational process privacy requirements as well as
fosters the understanding of the system design that is best
suited for privacy-relevant business processes. PriS offers a
comprehensive approach to IT-based applications that are
consistent with privacy in this phase by means of high-level
objectives.
He & Antón [32] presented a structured method in the
role-engineering procedures by modeling the privacy requirements. Role engineering requires the description of duties as
well as responsibilities and permission of tasks. This is the
first step toward developing a system for Role-Based Access
Control (RBAC) as well as ultimately a framework intended
for Requirements Engineering (RE). The proposed system
consists of a goal-driven data model as well as procedure for
the creation of functions. The researchers intended to address

13

the difference among high-level data protection standards
and low-level access control measures by designing privacy
requirements as context and obligations of the RBAC entities and associations. They also demonstrated their proposed
approach on a healthcare system example.
Meis [33] presented the Problem-based Privacy Analysis (ProPAn) for engineering privacy requirements which
is an aspect-oriented requirements engineering methodology. ProPAn allows the modeling as well as customizable
incorporation of intersect oral features and functionality into
requirement specification of a software system. The ProPAn
approach attempts to address the existing issues including
the functional requirement specification of a module as constructive feedback. The author also provided a categorization of privacy requirements which was extracted as well as
mapped with numerous other conceptions of privacy.

3 Overview of STORE Methodology
The Security Threat Oriented Requirements Engineering
(STORE) is a technique focused on security threats that can
be used by a software development enterprise to develop
effective and efficient security specifications. This approach
identifies and gives priority to all stakeholders based on their
importance. The process demands that all stakeholders are
considered from the very beginning of software development process. The STORE process is a ten-step operation
for software product security specifications engineering.
Every stage of the process of the STORE methodology is of
unprecedented significance. Since it is a detailed sequential
procedure for managing and documenting security requirements [26], the security expert or requirements engineer
cannot completely forgo as well as swoop toward another
phase. The STORE method comprises a sequence of ten
phases. Figure 2 shows the ten sequential steps of STORE
methodology.
With the support of potential stakeholders, the STORE
methodology addresses security threats for determining
security requirements. Many stakeholders often support
in asset recognition of the software product to the requirement engineer. The STORE process begins by specifying
the software system’s goals. The STORE methodology is
entirely constructed on software security threats since the
requirement engineer is able to produce security specifications with the aid of a threat dictionary after recognizing the
possible threats.
Frameworks and approaches that include a comprehensive solution to security and privacy are very important for
the quality software development [34]. However, the STORE
methodology is capable of eliciting only security requirements. The technique cannot elicit privacy requirements

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering

However, when a software product is to be developed, only
a few of the stakeholders seem to be highly concerned about
the software product’s privacy requirements, whereas most of
the stakeholders are apprehensive about the software’s security and are also aware of the specific assets in the system
which act as safeguards against the attacks. Based on this
premise, we have defined and prioritized all such stakeholders in P-STORE methodology as per their significance. From
the very first stage of the software development, it is important to recognize every appropriate stakeholder. The proposed approach discusses the risks to privacy with the aid of
potential stakeholders to identify privacy requirements. This
category of stakeholders facilitates the requirement engineer
in software product asset recognition. The P-STORE method
starts with the software’s concept of data privacy goals. As in
the case of the STORE process, each stage of the P-STORE
methodology is equally significant. The privacy requirements
engineer may not be able to skip or switch onto another stage
because this is a systematic procedure for eliciting as well as
recording privacy requirements.
Figure 3 shows the conceptual model of STORE methodology extended for P-STORE privacy requirements engineering where (SH1, SH2, SH3…SHn) represent different
stakeholders and (A1, A2, A3…An) represent the corresponding identified assets.

5 P‑STORE Methodology
Fig. 2  Different steps of STORE methodology

for any software application. Hence, we have extended the
STORE process as P-STORE methodology for incorporating the effective and efficient privacy requirements through
a sequential procedure.

This section describes each of the P-STORE’s ten steps
while stating all the alterations required for adapting the
STORE process for privacy requirements engineering. Figure 4 shows the ten steps of the P-STORE methodology.
Table 1 discusses the different input, output, approaches as
well as participants involve in each step of the P-STORE
methodology.

4 STORE for Privacy Requirements

5.1 Identify Privacy Goals

Ansari et al. [26] proposed a STORE process, which is a
ten-step sequential methodology. STORE methodology
offers an appropriate and a comprehensive way of obtaining
and capturing security requirements from the beginning of
the software as well as web-based applications development
process. Security considerations in terms of the risks are
also discussed under this strategy. Potential threat knowledge makes it easier for the security requirement engineer
to assess the level of risk, as well as define the attacker’s
ability.
It is hard to determine the privacy risks to a software
product [35], thus resulting in poor structured strategies for
identifying actors with privacy requirements within a system.
Stakeholders have a key contribution in the STORE process.

The initial objective in the P-STORE approach is the definition of the software’s privacy goals. The main approach
of this phase is similar to that of the STORE methodology.
The only contradiction is that, throughout this case, the software engineering structure of the requirements as well as the
stakeholders prepare and prioritize the objectives of privacy
instead of the objectives of security. Privacy policy statements are consistent with the goals and conditions of privacy.
Incomplete or inaccurate listing of requirements may lead
to confusion between stakeholders, more so in the contexts
where the stakeholders have different interpretations due to
inadequate information [36]. Low privacy strategic goals
demonstrate feasibly inaccurate information about specifications that must be fitted in by the software system. Erroneous

13

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering

Fig. 3  Conceptual model of STORE methodology extended for privacy requirements engineering

specifications for the requirements are a major concern for
the software engineers and also one of the key reasons for the
failure in the development of the application [37]. This move
is intended to help the stakeholders communicate about their
privacy objectives for the software project. Since the privacy
goals are directed by laws and regulations, a variety of privacy goals have been taken from laws for the HIPAA [15],
HITECH [17], Personal Information Protection and Electronic Documents Act (PIPEDA) [18], General Data Protection Regulation GDPR [19], Data Protection Act (DPA) [20],
IT Act [21] and many others privacy regulations.

5.2 Identify and Prioritize Stakeholders
The next stage in P-STORE procedure is to define as well as
prioritize all the stakeholders involved in the development of
the software project. Several research analyses in the Strategic Management field have referred to the importance of

13

the stakeholders. In this league, Sharp et al. [38] have cited
that recognizing and prioritizing the stakeholders is a critical mechanism which could be used to assess the success of
an organization and to monitor its future strategic direction.
Any software development process involves several types of
stakeholders. A stakeholder may present privacy concerns
in various degrees of detail [39].
To quote from the treatise of Glinz & Wieringa [40] "A
stakeholder is a person or organization who influences a
system’s requirements or who is impacted by that system." A
stakeholder may be a client, consumer, programmer, design
engineer, project manager, and others involved in software
application development. In software development process, every stakeholder is not similarly significant. Thus,
we must arrange the stakeholders according to their level
of importance or priority that has been accepted. Identified
stakeholders can be divided into important, medium, as well
as minor groups, as per their priority order. Strengthening

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering

Fig. 4  Different stages in P-STORE methodology

Table 1  Detailed description of each stage in P-STORE
Step No Step

Taking in

1

Identify privacy goals

2

4

Identify and prioritize
stakeholders
Agreed-upon privacy
goals
Asset identification

Privacy goals of the pro- Interview, brainstorming Requirement engineer,
client
posed system, strategy
and process
System privacy goals
Review, analysis
Requirement engineer

5

Privacy attack analysis

6

Privacy threat identification and categorization
Risk evaluation and
prioritization
Privacy requirements
elicitation
Privacy requirements
validation
Privacy requirements
specification document

3

7
8
9
10

System goals

Approach

Participants

PoA, PoB, PoC, PoD

Requirement engineer,
stakeholders
Interview, questionnaire, Requirement engineer,
brainstorming
stakeholders
Privacy attack analysis
Requirement engineer,
privacy expert
LINDDUN analysis
Requirement engineer

Categorized & prioritized threats
Potential privacy threats

DREAD risk assessment Requirement engineer,
methods
risk manager
Threat Dictionary
Requirement engineer

Privacy requirements

Review, walk-through

Valid privacy requirement

Documentation

Stakeholder’s valuable
asset
Valuable asset

Meeting

stakeholders has many security limits that influence the
accompanying service [41]. As reported by Glinz & Wieringa [40], the stakeholders’ requirements are connected to
their importance wherein:
Critical indicates that the performance of the stakeholder is extremely important because the negligence

Requirement engineer,
privacy expert
Requirement engineer

Taking out
List of system privacy
goals
List of prioritized stakeholders
Agreed-upon goals
Valuable assets
PoA, PoB, PoC, PoD
Categorized & prioritized
privacy threats
Risk assessment report
Privacy requirements
Valid privacy requirements
Privacy requirements
specification document

of such a stakeholder may damage the software project
or render the software design completely useless.
Major indicates that the performance of the stakeholder
is preferable and the negligence of such stakeholder
produces a highly uncertain outcome.

13

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering

Minor indicates that the performance of the stakeholder is
minimal, the negligence of such a stakeholder would have
a smaller effect on the software development process.

5.3 Agreed‑Upon Privacy Goals
Spiekermann [42] discussed the different challenges of
privacy-by-design (PbD). PbD’s key concern is that no
agreed-upon approach assists in routine privacy engineering into applications, and both administrators and engineers
remain committed to PbD. Software development life cycles
sometimes allow room for privacy concerns. Hence, for the
development, the engineers and stakeholders must adhere
to the corresponding software’s privacy goals. This would
create a much more desirable environment for the development of software application in which all the stakeholders
can interact with one another.

5.4 Asset Identification
The recognition of important assets is one of the most important as well as demanding processes of P-STORE procedure.
The result of this stage must be accurate as well as reliable,
or else this procedure would not provide efficient and acceptable requirements for privacy. To maintain the capability
of meeting the maximum privacy requirements, all related
assets must be identified. Valuable assets may include virtual
currency, records, security code, knowledge, goods, people, computer systems, etc. All the valuable assets must be
described with the support of all possible stakeholders associated with the development process of software projects.
In this stage, the requirement engineer may practice several
asset identification strategies, such as structured questionnaire, survey, brainstorming, discussion, analysis and interview. Privacy requirement engineering process intends to
preserve these valuable assets from the adversary. Therefore,
the valuable properties must always be observed not only
from stakeholder’s perception but also from an adversary’s
perception. Every stakeholder recognizes assets from his/her
perspective. The defined properties must be subsequently
classified and prioritized. Furthermore, the checked valuable
assets are listed under the more differentiated Confidentiality, Integrity, as well as Availability indicators and prioritized as low, medium, or high predilection rates.

be derived from the identified software privacy attacks.
Figure 5 illustrates the four significant points of analyzing
privacy attacks that are critical for the elicitation of software
privacy requirements.
5.5.1 Point of Attack (PoA)
The point of attack is the point through which the attacker
may strike the software application. The adversary is always
actively attempting to determine PoA to interrupt the automated program. The point of attack could be described as a
backdoor from where the attacker is attempting to communicate with the device. A program has several attack points
such as the registration form, sign in page, entering data
page, etc. The attacker attempts to understand these points
and tries to theoretically manipulate the software’s stability,
efficiency and accessibility.
5.5.2 Point of Belief (PoB)
Point of belief (PoB) indicates the confidence in outside
individual objects of the software application. The software
organization enables the outside entities to have control.
These points are therefore recognized as the points of belief.
Different individuals, including the person who visits the
web-based program, registered members who may have recognized privileges, software application manager, database
server administrator, etc., may possibly be the significant
points of belief for an application. When investigating a privacy invasion, the requirement engineer needs to clarify the
entire point of belief.

5.5 Privacy Attack Analysis
After the identification and the prioritization of the assets,
the subsequent stage in P-STORE methodology is to investigate every possible source of an infringement on privacy.
Analyzing any possible privacy infringement for a software
application project is an essential step in introducing safe
security systems as anticipated privacy requirements would

13

Fig. 5  Four points of privacy attack analysis

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering

5.5.3 Point of Conjecture (PoC)
The point of conjecture specifies the interpretation on the
challenges to software privacy that the software product can
indicate in the future after the development of the software
product. Even before the production process begins, the PoC
should be checked. All these points are especially important
when it comes to achieving the privacy requirements, therefore this should not be negated. All the significant points of
conjecture must be properly analyzed after the process of
software development is complete.
5.5.4 Point of Dependency (PoD)
Point of dependency (PoD) is defined as the dependence of
software system on outside objects. Unexpected behavior
of PoD may be the cause for the software system loses. The
PoD must also be authentic as well as approved, since this
discrepancy may indicate the direction to an infringement on
privacy. A software application may have many dependency
points, such as the remote server over which the software
system depends, the database server, internet connection,
etc.

5.6 Privacy Threat Identification and Categorization
After recognizing the all possible PoA, PoB, PoC, and PoD
with the help of the privacy attack analysis in the preceding stage of the P-STORE methodology, it would be easy
to determine the privacy risks, the next stage of P-STORE.
This move emphasizes every possible threat to the application regarding privacy. The perceived threat to privacy
can be seen as a trigger of possible hacking attempts. The

application development bugs are vulnerabilities that can be
exploited easily. There are several possible threats to privacy
which can adversely influence the application’s software.
However, it is not practical to recognize all threats to the
privacy of a software application, attention needs to be given
to every potential threat to the privacy.
Deng et al. [29] defined a privacy threat modelling
approach focused on the threat levels such as Linkability,
Identifiablitiy, Non-repudiation, Detectability, Information
disclosure, Content unawareness, as well as Consent Noncompliance. Table 2 shows the description of LINDDUN
privacy threat categories.

5.7 Risk Evaluation and Prioritization
Risk evaluation for software security as well as privacy
requirements defines the program’s weaknesses and risks,
the likelihood for the risks to surface as real attacks, and
the possible consequences of an invasion. Risk estimation
offers a baseline for categorizing as well as enforcing the
application’s privacy requirements. Risk detection as well
as priority management may also contribute to the elicitation method that will further prioritize the privacy requirements [43]. Privacy risk assessment includes information
vulnerabilities and how they may be infringed. Therefore, it
takes into account privacy practices, legislation, as well as
regulations. Since security risk assessment generally doesn’t
address regulations and standards, the objectives of Privacy
Risk Assessment differ significantly from the objectives of
the software security’s risk assessment.
There have been several rules and regulations on privacy
which control the various companies and regions. All the
laws have some guidelines that can be used to deal with the

Table 2  LINDDUN privacy threat categories (Adapted from [29])
Privacy properties

Privacy threat

Unlinkability

Linkability

Threat description

The linkingability of two or more objects of interest helps an adversary to easily
determine whether or not such (items of interest) IOIs are linked within the
network
Anonymity & pseudonymity
Identifiability
Identifiability of a specific topic implies that the intruder can sufficiently identify
the creator of a statement as the subject linked to an IOI
Plausible & deniability
Non-repudiation
Non-repudiation permits the adversary to gather evidence to disprove the repudiating member’s allegations, as well as claim a receiver understands, does, or
says anything
Undetectability & unobservability Detectability
Detectability of such an IOI ensures the adversary may make a clear distinction
including whether such an object exists or not
Confidentiality
Disclosure of information Information Disclosure Risks of leaking information expose classified details to
individuals that may not have connections to it
Content awareness
Content unawareness
Content unawareness indicates a client does not know the details exposed to the
application
Consent compliance
Consent noncompliance Policy and consent noncompliance implies that although the program will demonstrate the privacy policies to its users, there’s no assurance that the system
will likely comply with the recommended policies

13

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering

risk of software privacy. For example, the HIPAA addresses
the privacy issues of healthcare data networks by taking
steps to share data. The Privacy Impact Assessment (PIA)
is an effective mechanism for assessing privacy, confidentiality, and targeted activities associated with data gathering, use, as well as sharing. A standard probability impact
formative and summative evaluation given below, as used in
software industry, shows the risk assessment and effect of
a specific threat as equitable to the probability of a privacy
threat occurrence multiplied by the damage potential.

Risk = Probability × Damage Potential
The above formula evaluates the potential for likelihood
as well as serious harm at a 10-scale, in which 1 is the least
likely to happen, and 10 is the most likely to happen. According to this method, if the possibility of a threat happening
is 5 and also the potential for threat harm is 10, the chance
will be 50%. Threat risk assessment may also be carried
out using a DREAD evaluation model from Microsoft [44].
DREAD_Risk_Value = (Damage + Reproduciablity + Exploitability
+Affected Users + Discoverability)∕5

5.8 Privacy Requirements Elicitation
A further stage of P-STORE procedure is to accomplish
acceptable software privacy requirements with the help of
previous outcome of P-STORE methodology. The P-STORE
approach first sees high-risk privacy attacks, after that, the
medium-risk potential risks, and eventually the lesser potential risks. A threat dictionary is thus developed. The dictionary is a composite list of the threats to privacy consisting of
several previously identified privacy threats with some of
the most recent privacy needs and requirements. The key
objective is to make it easier for the requirement engineer
to deliver privacy requirements by gaining authentic and
comprehensive knowledge of the privacy threat.

5.9 Privacy Requirements Validation
This step validates the obtained effective privacy requirements in order to mitigate any potential threat to privacy. Unmitigated risks to privacy are bugs that could be
abused by the adversaries to damage the software system
[45]. All threats are not a serious risk to the application
program, therefore mitigating each threat is not appropriate. The essential phase in the process is the verification of
specifications. Inspections of elicited privacy requirements
remove defects of the conditions as well as basic inconsistencies. Researchers believe that maximum number of
defects is introduced in the requirement-gathering process
of the application development process [46]. Hence, the

13

requirement-gathering system is regarded as a highly critical step. Testing may be formal or informal. There is a range
of inspection approaches, varying through ad hoc to checklist
implementation, and also Fagan assessments and scenariobased analyses. Various studies demonstrate how scenariobased inspection methods have a higher rate of fault detection than checklists and ad hoc inspections [47]. In order
to accomplish this step through the procedure, the requirements engineering organization can guide the stakeholders
to exercise any of the verification approaches accessible. The
outcome of this move is a comprehensive report on privacy
principles that would be approved upon and reviewed by
every stakeholder as well as the technical members of the
privacy requirements specifications.

5.10 Privacy Requirements Specification Document
The final stage of the P-STORE privacy requirements engineering procedure is the creation of the specification documents of privacy requirements. The specifics of the conditions for privacy are made and discussed with the potential
stakeholders. For the preliminary privacy partnership in
software development, the requirement engineer must forward this Privacy Requirements Specification (PRS) report
to the software designing team. Finkelstein and Fuks [48]
suggested that the creation of the blueprint report, using
different stakeholders’ viewpoints with varying opinions,
should be identified through a complete conversation that
demonstrates answers in the form of claims, problems, rejections, challenges, etc.

6 Application of P‑STORE Methodology
for HMS Project
6.1 Architecture of Healthcare Management
Software
Over the last decades, healthcare management has changed
tremendously. Healthcare organizations have introduced
state-of-the-art technology, network devices, mobile applications and enhanced medical awareness. These are key facets
for implementing healthcare management software (HMS)
system project. There has been an increase in the numbers
of healthcare providers, and the patients can now opt for
their preferred medical aid from a wide selection of medical practitioners. Besides its’ main objective of ensuring the
best possible medical scaffolds, healthcare sector must also
effectively address the legal and economic considerations
associated with this sector [49]. Security and privacy implementation in healthcare information systems is a difficult
task due to multi-dimensional effects of complex factors.
In the social context, for example, there are relationships of

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering

trust between patient-doctor and the user-system. Regulations and restrictions also extend along medical and financial parameters. Furthermore, adding utterly different new
technologies such as unified electronic medical records and
software agents is supposed to make the design task even
more difficult, since issues arising from these new extents
have to be taken into account [34].
Prior to the actual production of this software application,
the proposed extension of STORE process, P-STORE, was
implemented onto the HMS application so that the requirement engineer may obtain complete privacy specifications
considered necessary for the development of the software
application. Eliciting the comprehensive privacy requirement before the completion of the software product is not
an easy process. However, the requirement engineer may
make it simple with the help of P-STORE technique. Often
described as e-Hospital, management system is the healthcare management platform that is dependent on the cloud
and web-based application. It may be interconnected with
medical records as well as maintains all clinical, economic,
operational, legal, and regulatory hospital activities. Figure 6 represents the architecture of healthcare management
software.
There are five types of users in the healthcare management software: doctor, patient, accountant, HMS administrator, and visitors. HMS administrator has the authorization to

add new services, departments into the system, assign new
doctors, and add new notifications. Doctors are authorized
to examine the patients, maintain patients’ appointments,
connect the live treatment, and email to patients. All these
activities are done department-wise. When the patients
access into the HMS system, they see the facilities that they
can avail of; they can take appointment from the specialist doctors; and they can view their health records online.
Accountant organizes the patient’s and the medical organizations financial matters, details of insurance expenditures,
financial information of hospital expenses and total benefits.
Online unauthorized visitors can see the different facilities
available in the hospital. They can select from the profile
of the available doctors and book appointments. HMS user
types and roles in this application are presented in Table 3.

6.2 Implementation on the Case Study
The case study on an HMS application discussed in this
section clearly demonstrates how well the P-STORE
methodology elicits efficient privacy requirements. Conducting the case study to support a new approach is an
extremely common and demanding task, mostly in software engineering-based research. Every sequential step of
the P-STORE approach for complete and well-structured

Fig. 6  Architecture of healthcare management software

13

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering
Table 3  HMS system user’s category
HMS user

Permission

Authorization

Limitations

Doctor

To the doctor

Can amend only own generated records

Patient

To the patient

Can view and amend all information regarding
given department
Can see the reports and view data about them

Accountant
HMS administrator

To the accountant
To the HMS administrator page
To the visitors

Visitors

Can perform and access all financial task
Can view all data in the system

Can only access to the own reports
information and to the general information
All financial rights granted
All rights granted

Can visit the pages on HMS portal

Cannot see the internal data

Table 4  Recognized privacy goals for the HMS application
Goal ID

Privacy goals

GL1
GL2
GL3
GL4

Only authorized user should be measured
Patient’s confidential information cannot be changed
Make sure that the personal information is obtained with the knowledge of the patient
Make sure that the information collected for a legitimate purpose is not being used without proper permission for other reasons
Ensure that the patients are aware of the implications about which confidential information is being gathered
A firewall should safeguard the database server against direct access through the internet
HTTP as well as HTTPS ports permit uninterrupted access to the network
The transmission of messages between both the web server as well as the database server must be performed
over a secure private network
Must activate the HMS application over HTTPS

GL5
GL6
GL7
GL8
GL9

engineering of privacy requirements has been discussed in
the following section.
6.2.1 Identify Privacy Goals
The very first phase of the P-STORE approach is the determination of the software privacy goals. In this crucial
stage, the requirement engineer captures every possible
privacy objective for the HMS application that is to be
established in this phase. Requirement engineer may use
various strategies to recognize and collect software system
privacy objectives including meetings, brainstorming, etc.
The following Table 4 lists the possible privacy goals for
the HMS application in this research study.

Table 5  List of potential stakeholders including their importance for
the HMS application
No

Name

Significance

Type

1
2
3
4
5
6
7
8
9
10
11
12

HMS Project Director
Project Deputy Director
Senior Executives
Internal Auditor
Manager
HMS Project Manager
Database Administrator
Software Developer
Networking Team
Patients
Doctors
Assistant

Critical
Critical
Major
Critical
Critical
Critical
Critical
Critical
Major
Major
Major
Minor

Managerial

Marketing
Information system

Client

6.2.2 Identify and Prioritize the Stakeholders
This stage of the proposed P-STORE approach recognizes
as well as prioritizes the potential stakeholders involved
at various steps of development of the HMS application. Table 5 lists the potential stakeholders for the HMS
system.

13

6.2.3 Agreed‑upon Privacy Goals
After these stakeholders associated with the HMS application project have been recognized, the subsequent stage of
the proposed P-STORE privacy requirements engineering

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering

approach is to come to an agreement with all the stakeholders upon this planned HMS application’s privacy objectives. The requirement engineers as well as the stakeholders
should agree on the application product’s specified privacy
goals. This would create better application development
platform environment, wherein all the stakeholders can
interact directly with one another.
6.2.4 Asset Identification
The proposed P-STORE approach is intended to safeguard
sensitive assets against privacy threat risk to HMS application privacy. This procedure is an imperative stage in the
proposed P-STORE approach because this stage determines
the valuable property associated with the HMS application.
Table 6 lists the identified assets of the HMS system.
6.2.5 Privacy Attack Analysis
The case study on an HMS presented here corroborates the
fact that P-STORE methodology is highly efficient in determining the privacy requirements. Privacy attack analysis is a
crucial step of the P-STORE approach for potential privacy
threat identification. This stage involves the identification of
four significant points which is discussed in the following
section.

6.2.5.1 Point of Attack (PoA) The Table 7 below displays the
recognized Points of Attack (PoA) for the implementation
of HMS system through the support of proposed P-STORE
methodology for privacy intervention assessment.
6.2.5.2 Point of Belief (PoB) The following Table 8 illustrates the HMS program’s recognized Point of Belief (PoB)
from the proposed P-STORE procedure for software privacy
attack analysis.
6.2.5.3 Point of Conjecture (PoC) The following Table 9
demonstrates the Point of Conjecture (PoC) established
for the HMS application in the framework of proposed
P-STORE approach for the analysis of privacy attack.
6.2.5.4 Point of Dependency (PoD) The Table 10 given
below demonstrates the defined Point of Dependency (PoD)
to the HMS application in the proposed P-STORE approach
privacy attack analysis procedure.
6.2.6 Privacy Threat Identification and Categorization
Further with support of the LINDDUN procedure, it is
vital to define the perceived threat with each valuable asset
upon recognizing the assets as well as evaluating the privacy attack. After this, every identified threat to privacy
is classified according to LINDDUN [29]. LINDDUN is
a framework for classifying possible threats to privacy

Table 6  Identified assets of the HMS system project
Asset ID

Asset

Description

AT1
AT2
AT3
AT4
AT5
AT6
AT7
AT8
AT9
AT10
AT11
AT12
AT13

Accuracy of healthcare data
HMS users
Patient’s login data
Doctor’s login data
HMS admin login data
Patient’s personal data
Department’s personal data
System
Availability of HMS system
Process
Application
Login session
Backend database access

AT14

Treatment charges details

AT15

Online service details

AT16
AT17
AT18

Message notification
Audit data
Access to the record

The healthcare data must be accurate
An asset that relates to all types of HMS users
Patient’s credibility such as HMS service username as well as password
Credibility of the physician such as username as well as password for handling online HMS facilities
The HMS admin’s credentials: username and password to control services
The patient’s personal record and assets
The departmental details, patients’ record, and other assets
Resources linked to the extremely valuable HMS system
If the HMS system goes down, patient /and doctor cannot perform several operations
Assets which contribute to the HMS web application operating process
Valuable property related to a HMS web application
The HMS web application session connected to a patient, physician, admin and other logged in visitors
The opportunity to communicate with the storage database, client records, service data including passwords for joining the HMS application
Records of care costs for the patient needs to be safe. Tampering this confidential information may
result in the healthcare organization’s loss
All record concerning the online platform must be safe. Tinkering with such a data may trigger institutional damage
The message notice comprises the patients’ as well as the doctors’ data
Malicious actors may continue to attack the HMS application without logging in or auditing
Only registered HMS system client must be able to gain access his/her confidential information

13

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering
Table 7  List of the recognized points of attack (PoA)
ID

PoA

PA1
PA2

Network server port (HTTPS) The address port (HTTPS) upon which the HMS Web server listens
Login page
To establish a login for client, physician, administrator or any other visitor as well as conduct a login for
either the web to access services or to check information
Data entry page
HMS web application pages used to register as well as access personal information of patient or section
in the dataset so that it can be checked by the admin
Retrieve data function
Enable the patients’/physicians’ approval to display their healthcare reports from the database
Create login function
Enter a new patient (Departmental credentials as well as Admin credentials must be generated directly
from the processes contained in the database
Login to site function
Compares approved individual credentials with those in the repository, as well as generates a regular
session if credentials meet
Store user data procedure
Used to save user information through HMS application data input page
Retrieve user data procedure
Collects information and requests from the customer
Retrieve data function
Recovers information about the patient or the healthcare organization
Submit data function
Delivers some patient or healthcare organization’s detail
List Requests function
Requests collection prepared for review
Database listening port
Allows the permitted individuals to be using the database from anywhere
Database stored procedures
HMS application data documents are stored as well as retrieved
Create login procedure
Enable an individual authorized to login to the HMS application
Remove login procedure
Log back from the HMS application
Submit data function
Provides patients’ as well as healthcare departmental data for the administrator to analyze
Admin review page
This section is accessed by the HMS administrator to evaluate requests from the patient or team

PA3
PA4
PA5
PA6
PA7
PA8
PA9
PA10
PA11
PA12
PA13
PA14
PA15
PA16
PA17

Description

Table 8  List of recognized point of belief (PoB)
ID

PoB

Description

PB1
PB2
PB3
PB4
PB5
PB6
PB7

HMS admin
HTTP user
HTTPS user
Database server process identity
Unauthorized remote user
Authorized remote user
Web server process identity

HMS admin accesses as well as modifies the repository using login details
Remote client who wants to access the web application via HTTP
A distant user accessing a website via HTTPS
The user account the web server runs as the web page which is recognized through its process token
A client linked to the HMS network but who still hasn’t received the login credential
An approved user who built the profile as well as has the authorized identifications to log in
Used while collecting or extracting data to verify the web server into the directory

Table 9  List of recognized point of conjecture (PoC)
ID

PoC

Description

PC1 Encrypted communication If in the future, encrypted messaging capability is introduced in the HMS system, the transmission of messages must be done as per the rules and regulations
PC2 Imbursement gateway
If payment gateway is implemented in the coming years, the HMS application must meet PCI DSS or several
other safety requirements
PC3 Digital payment
Another feature for this HMS system can be the online payment system. If applied to this HMS application,
this functionality would not offer adversaries a way to exploit existing privacy features

centered on threat classifications such as Linkability, identifiability, non-repudiation, detectability, information disclosure, content unawareness, as well as policy/consent

13

noncompliance. The Table 11 below comprises identified
threats to the HMS application regarding privacy.

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering
Table 10  List of the recognized point of dependency (PoD)
ID

PoD

Description

PD1
PD2
PD3

Database server
Web server
Network

PD4
PD5

External SMTP
Session management

The HMS application relies on database server’s reliability
The HMS application is heavily reliant on the privacy of the virtual server
The HMS application is able to rely upon the network security among each of the Web servers as well as the database server
To send any communication message, the HMS application relies on an outside SMTP server
The HMS application relies on secure Web server session management

Table 11  Identified privacy threats for HMS system
TID

PT1
PT2
PT3
PT4
PT5
PT6
PT7
PT8
PT9
PT10
PT11
PT12

Privacy threat

Incorrect or outdated personal data
Data transfer over insecure channels
Lack of terms and conditions
Data transfer over insecure channels
Session expiration problems
Vulnerabilities in web applications
Collection of unnecessary data
Lacking breach response
Insiders and poorly trained employees
Personal data sharing
Lack of transparency in privacy policies
Inadequate personal data disposal

LINDDUN
L

I

✓
✓

✓

Assets
N

D

D

✓
✓

✓

U

N
✓
✓
✓

✓
✓

✓

✓

✓
✓
✓

✓

✓
✓
✓

✓

✓
✓
✓

✓

Table 12  Prioritized privacy threats with corresponding DREAD risk
value
PT ID

Privacy threat

DREAD value

PT1
PT5
PT10
PT4
PT8
PT6
PT9
PT12
PT2
PT7
PT11
PT3

Incorrect or outdated personal data
Session expiration problems
Personal data sharing
Data transfer over insecure channels
Lacking breach response
Vulnerabilities in web applications
Insiders and poorly trained employees
Inadequate personal data disposal
Data transfer over insecure channels
Collection of unnecessary data
Lack of transparency in privacy policies
Lack of terms and conditions

10
10
10
9.2
9.2
7.6
7.6
7.6
6.6
6.4
6.4
5.8

6.2.7 Risk Evaluation and Prioritization
The presented risk analysis in the P-STORE approach as
well as prioritization module analyses the risk impact of

✓

✓

AT1-AT7
AT3-AT6
AT5, AT18
AT6, AT8-AT10
AT2-AT6, AT12, AT17
AT13, AT18
AT12
AT1, AT5-AT7
AT3, AT4, AT5
AT13, AT18
AT5, AT7
AT17

privacy threats on important assets as well as illustrates a
holistic indication of the total of risk to an asset. The following Table 12 lists the threats found in relation to their
privacy risk ranking.
6.2.8 Privacy Requirement Elicitation
The proposed P-STORE approach phase elicits the accurate
and complete privacy requirements for any possible threat to
privacy found. The Table 13 below is composed of privacy
requirements to every recognized threat to HMS application
privacy.
6.2.9 Privacy Requirement Validation
This stage is associated with the verification and validation
of the obtained privacy requirements for the HMS application development through the P-STORE methodology.
Each of the software privacy specifications mentioned must
be capable of increasing the HMS program’s functionality
and efficiency by integrating acceptable privacy concerns.
Efficient privacy requirements are given priority during this
stage, depending on the considerable risk of the associated
privacy threat. The mechanism through which the privacy

13

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering
Table 13  Elicited privacy requirements for every privacy threat
TID

PR ID Privacy requirement

PT1 PR1
PT5 PR2
PT10 PR3
PT4
PT8

PR4
PR5

PT6
PT9

PR6
PR7

PT12
PT2
PT7
PT11
PT3

PR8
PR9
PR10
PR11
PR12

The system shall supply correct personal information and keep the data updated where necessary
The system shall provide session management cheat sheet that can be used to avoid privacy problems
The system shall take the clause or legally binding agreement of the customer for gathering, using, processing and transmitting of
personal information
The service provider shall guarantee that the data subject will have the lawful authority to view his/her confidential info
The management team should implement new technological as well as regulatory measures to safeguard personal information
against inadvertent or illegal devastation or improper disclosure, alteration, unapproved procreation or access
The application must have effective authentication mechanisms at all network gateways as well as entry points
Individual information should be protected with proper privacy against risks including loss or identity theft, degradation, use,
modification or disclosure of information
Individual patient’s data is secure, consistent and would be updated regularly if appropriate
The system shall provide a method for users to test their information
The data manager shall define the intent before capturing the sensitive personal information
The record manager shall limit personal information gathering as well as obtain such data by lawful and acceptable means
The software should provide work-inspection reports and use documents that do not disclose any personally identifying information

specifications are checked involves data privacy requirement
engineers as well as interested stakeholders as participants.
Individuals may use analysis and review, or walk-through
methods to verify and validate the HMS application’s elicited privacy requirements.

Fig. 7  Hierarchy structure for
usability evaluation of privacy
requirements engineering
approaches

13

6.2.9.1 Privacy Requirements Specification Document The
last as well as a crucial phase of the proposed P-STORE
methodology is the organized creation of the HMS system’s
complete and accurate software privacy requirement specification documentation. The specification document for pri-

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering
Table 14  Different criteria for usability analysis
Usability criteria

Description

T1

Efficiency

T2

Effectiveness

T3

Learnability

T4

Satisfaction

T5

Productivity

It is a software application measurement which allows the user to produce the desired outcomes in terms of asset
investment
It is a software application measurement for which the user can perform the particular tasks and the expected outcome
for completeness as well as certainty
A measurement of how easily and efficiently a functionality can be understood. The unit of measurement is learning
times. Interfaces are usually simpler to comprehend when familiar with and they are also structured to be convenient
to use depending on key psychological principles
It’s a measurement of reactions, users’ emotions as the participants use the app, i.e., independence from pain and likeability
It is the level of useful performance by the software product

vacy requirements (PRS) tends to create a more robust and
consistent HMS application that addresses privacy issues
right from the very early stages of application’s development.

7 Usability Analysis of P‑STORE
Methodology
7.1 Proposed Hierarchical Usability Model
The ongoing and rising development of digital applications
in every sphere of our activity from personal to professional
and business spheres has also increased the demand for
mechanisms that can ensure effective privacy requirements
in these applications. For achieving this objective, a robust
analysis of several alternatives that determine the privacy
requirements is needed. The different alternatives used in
this research study are P-STORE, RBAC, ProPAn, PriS,
P-SQUARE and STRAP which have been represented as
A-1, A-2, A-3, A-4, A-5 and A-6, respectively. A survey, done
through a questionnaire, was undertaken with the help of 59
requirements engineers, researchers and academicians from
different institutions and software industry. The objective
of the survey was to assess the usability impact of different
privacy requirements engineering approaches with the functionality of the proposed fuzzy AHP-TOPSIS method. In
this section, we developed a centralized, hierarchical model
for usability evaluation using its comprehensive categorization. This approach can effectively evaluate the usability of
different PRE approaches including our proposed P-STORE
methodology. The model explicitly integrates the usability
variables, features, software application quality features as
well as describes them in a clear manner. Figure 7 shows
the hierarchical model used in this research which defines
usability by using five factors also listed in Table 14.

7.2 Fuzzy AHP‑TOPSIS Methodology

Fig. 8  Flowchart of integrated fuzzy AHP-TOPSIS method

The integrated fuzzy AHP-TOPSIS approach is essentially a
hybrid of the fuzzy AHP [50] and the fuzzy TOPSIS method
[51]. From the first step itself, fuzzy AHP is used to measure
the comparative significance of each factor. This measured
criterion can be used in many assessment criteria to allocate a scoring rate to every individual. Following this step

13

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering
Table 15  Fuzzy pair-wise comparison matrix at level 1

(T1)
(T2)
(T3)
(T4)
(T5)

(T1)

(T2)

(T3)

(T4)

(T5)

1.00000,
1.00000,
1.00000
–
–
–
–

1.00000, 1.54500, 1.97500

0.51200, 0.63500, 1.75400

0.40000, 0.60000, 1.00000

0.24570, 0.31100, 0.41200

1.00000, 1.00000, 1.00000
–
–
–

0.61100, 0.71200, 0.82500
1.00000, 1.00000, 1.00000
–
–

0.30000, 0.40000, 0.60000
1.00000, 1.30000, 1.60000
1.00000, 1.00000, 1.00000
–

0.34700, 0.41200, 0.50000
0.34500, 0.41200, 0.80000
0.51400, 0.94500, 1.64700
1.00000, 1.00000, 1.00000

Table 16  Fuzzy aggregated pair-wise comparison matrix at level 2
for efficiency

(T11)
(T12)

Table 19  Aggregated pair-wise comparison matrix at level 2 for satisfaction

(T11)

(T12)

1.00000, 1.00000,
1.00000
–

0.71400, 0.91400, 1.18500

(T41)

1.00000, 1.00000, 1.00000

(T42)

is the fuzzy TOPSIS, wherein the similarity rating of every
candidate with the ideal is measured based on the results
allocated, for both the positive ideal as well as for the negative ideal. The strongest candidate must be as close to the
positive ideal when necessary, whereas the negative ideal
must be as far as necessary.
Several studies have applied integrated fuzzy AHP with
fuzzy TOPSIS approach to assess usability analysis for different situations and problems. Sharawat & Dubey [52]
implemented the integrated fuzzy AHP-TOPSIS to choose
mobile companies based on the findings of usability analysis. They showed the best mobile company in their study as
well as found out which one makes the best applications.
Masudin & Saputro [53] attempted to assess the degree of
relevance with B2C e-commerce applications to identify the
highest usability factors among the different alternatives.
Table 17  Fuzzy aggregated
pair-wise comparison matrix at
level 2 for effectiveness

(T21)
(T22)
(T23)

Table 18  Aggregated pair-wise
comparison matrix at level 2 for
learnability

(T31)
(T32)
(T33)

13

(T41)

(T42)

1.00000, 1.00000,
1.00000
–

1.20000, 1.40000, 1.70000
1.00000, 1.00000, 1.00000

Table 20  Aggregated pair-wise comparison matrix at level 2 for productivity

(T51)
(T52)

(T51)

(T52)

1.00000, 1.00000,
1.00000
–

0.31000, 0.40200, 0.60300
1.00000, 1.00000, 1.00000

They used the hybrid fuzzy AHP-TOPSIS methodology to
solve this problem. Nagpal et al. [54] undertook a study to
optimize the usability of the website according to the opinions of the users. In order to eliminate uncertainty as well
as inaccuracy in decision-making, they used FAHP with
fuzzy TOPSIS method, in which distinct decision-makers
(DM’s) views were regarded for evaluating and ranking the

(T21)

(T22)

(T23)

1.00000, 1.00000,
1.00000
–
–

0.71400, 1.24400, 1.71400

0.71400, 1.00000, 1.44400

1.00000, 1.00000, 1.00000
–

1.20000, 1.60000, 2.20000
1.00000, 1.00000, 1.00000

(T31)

(T32)

(T33)

1.00000, 1.00000,
1.00000
–
–

0.20000, 0.30000, 0.40000

1.20000, 1.40000, 1.70000

1.00000, 1.00000, 1.00000
–

0.30000, 0.40000, 0.60000
1.00000, 1.00000, 1.00000

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering
Table 21  Defuzzified pair-wise
comparison matrix

(T1)
(T2)
(T3)
(T4)
(T5)

(T1)

(T2)

(T3)

(T4)

(T5)

Weights

1.00000
0.70000
1.40000
1.60000
3.30000

1.50000
1.00000
1.50000
2.40000
2.70000

0.70000
0.70000
1.00000
0.80000
2.00000

0.60000
0.40000
1.30000
1.00000
1.00000

0.30000
0.40000
0.50000
1.00000
1.00000

0.13150
0.10940
0.19750
0.23560
0.32600
C.R. = 0.00245

Table 22  Aggregated pair-wise comparison matrix at level 2 for efficiency

(T11)
(T12)

(T11)

(T12)

Weights

1.00000
1.10000

0.90000
1.00000

0.47370
0.52630
C.R. = 0.00020

Table 23  Aggregated pair-wise comparison matrix at level 2 for
effectiveness

(T21)
(T22)
(T23)

(T21)

(T22)

(T23)

Weights

1.00000
0.90000
1.00000

1.20000
1.00000
0.60000

1. 00,000
1.60000
1.00000

0.35210
0.36470
0.28320
CR = 0.02300

Table 24  Aggregated pair-wise comparison matrix at level 2 for
learnability

(T31)
(T32)
(T33)

(T31)

(T32)

(T33)

Weights

1.00000
3.50000
0.70000

0.30000
1.00000
2.40000

1.40000
0.40000
1.00000

0.24450
0.35940
0.39610
C.R. = 0.00354

Table 25  Aggregated pair-wise comparison matrix at level 2 for satisfaction

(T41)
(T42)

(T41)

(T42)

Weights

1.00000
0.70000

1.40000
1.00000

0.58330
0.41670
C.R. = 0.00050

website. Atalay & Eraslan [55] performed a research study
wherein various types and dimensions of MP3 players were
collected and its usability assessed. The usability criteria
included in evaluation of MP3 players were classified into

Table 26  Aggregated pair-wise comparison matrix at level 2 for productivity

(T51)
(T52)

(T51)

(T52)

Weights

1.00000
2.40000

0.40000
1.00000

0.28570
0.71430
C.R. = 0.00400

two key groups: quality as well as emotional demands. The
alternatives were listed and the results obtained were compared through fuzzy MCDM methods, including FTOPSIS,
FAHP as well as Fuzzy Axiomatic Design Theory (FADT).
Figure 8 provides a succinct step of the fuzzy AHP-TOPSIS
method.

7.3 Statistical Data Analysis
This subsection addresses numerous statistical analysis
data achieved through the implementation of the integrated
fuzzy AHP-TOPSIS process. In the software engineering
field, the new approach should be developed and assessed
from the usability point of view. It addresses whoever the
targeted recipient of the product is, assessment of the profile of the users who would be using the service, as well
as the real-world experiences wherein the product may be
used. This knowledge can be described as well as specified via several structured Human–Computer Interface
(HCI) approach. The HCI expert selects an appropriate
subcategory of methodologies to be used for any particular product, considering the time, infrastructure, risk, and
industry’s priorities associated with the project. A few of
these methodologies involve interviews and surveys, competitive assessments [56]. The researchers adopted a wellestablished as well as tested decision-making approach,
the hybrid fuzzy AHP-TOPSIS. This methodology was
enlisted to prioritize different privacy requirements engineering techniques that focused on the usability impact
evaluation in the current software privacy demand setting. The researchers have taken recommendations from 59
software privacy experts from various technology and educational backgrounds to gather accurate information and

13

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering
Table 27  Overall weights and
ranking of methods

First level Local
methods weights of
first level

Local weights Overall weights Percentage (%) Overall ranks
Second
level meth- of second level
ods

T1

0.13150

T2

0.10940

T3

0.19750

T4

0.23560

T5

0.32600

T11
T12
T21
T22
T23
T31
T32
T33
T41
T42
T51
T52

0.47370
0.52630
0.35210
0.36470
0.28320
0.24450
0.35940
0.39610
0.58330
0.41670
0.28570
0.71430

0.06230
0.06920
0.03850
0.03990
0.03100
0.04830
0.07100
0.07830
0.13740
0.09820
0.09310
0.23290

6.23
6.92
3.85
3.99
3.10
4.83
7.10
7.83
13.74
9.82
9.31
23.29

8
7
11
10
12
9
6
5
2
3
4
1

Table 28  Fuzzy decision matrix of alternatives

T11
T12
T21
T22
T23
T31
T32
T33
T41
T42
T51
T52

A-1

A-2

A-3

A-4

A-5

A-6

6.40123, 7.40145,
8.40459
6.73257, 7.74453,
8.74122
5.10124, 6.21145,
7.28123
6.20159, 7.23548,
8.25456
6.00254, 7.00234,
8.00121
4.09221, 5.16111,
6.20120
6.00120, 7.00250,
8.00450
6.20470, 7.23460,
8.25480
6.20730, 7.23460,
8.25044
4.09044, 5.16000,
6.20077
4.33450, 5.34250,
6.35035
5.10044, 6.11043,
7.13025

4.98450, 6.01741,
7.03123
5.72124, 6.76412,
7.79142
4.70440, 5.80470,
6.87445
6.20470, 7.23440,
8.25430
4.33044, 5.34077,
6.35787
4.33589, 5.43556,
6.49578
5.40453, 6.43256,
7.45357
4.70785, 5.72556,
6.73357
5.10759, 6.11582,
7.13236
3.48654, 4.51256,
5.53357
4.98123, 6.01456,
7.03789
4.70741, 5.80852,
6.87963

4.70258, 5.80963,
6.87147
5.10753, 6.11159,
7.13845
4.98856, 6.01652,
7.03235
5.86741, 6.88753,
7.89789
4.09742, 5.16258,
6.20269
3.28357, 4.35259,
5.40332
4.44214, 5.52159,
6.57258
6.00845, 7.00965,
8.00957
5.53750, 6.54550,
7.55520
3.10254, 4.21552,
5.27335
3.48556, 4.51854,
5.53523
5.53325, 6.54558,
7.55553

6.20552, 7.23225,
8.25357
5.86758, 6.88256,
7.89253
5.86258, 6.88456,
7.89447
6.73114, 7.74116,
8.74257
5.10229, 6.11888,
7.13999
4.70142, 5.80140,
6.87010
5.53020, 6.54030,
7.55250
5.40350, 6.43480,
7.45750
5.86124, 6.87445,
7.89957
3.56750, 4.66456,
5.72582
4.72552, 5.72252,
6.73352
5.86253, 6.88457,
7.89452

4.09742, 5.16258,
6.20269
3.54520, 4.66445,
5.72000
6.00254, 7.00234,
8.00121
4.09221, 5.16111,
6.20120
6.00120, 7.00250,
8.00450
6.20470, 7.23460,
8.25480
6.20730, 7.23460,
8.25044
4.09044, 5.16000,
6.20077
4.33450, 5.34250,
6.35035
2.00000, 2.66000,
3.28000
3.03000, 4.07000,
5.10000
3.56000, 4.66000,
5.72000

5.10229, 6.11888,
7.13999
3.77256, 4.82445,
5.84550
4.33044, 5.34077,
6.35787
4.33589, 5.43556,
6.49578
5.40453, 6.43256,
7.45357
4.70785, 5.72556,
6.73357
5.10759, 6.11582,
7.13236
3.48654, 4.51256,
5.53357
4.98123, 6.01456,
7.03789
6.20552, 7.23225,
8.25357
5.86758, 6.88256,
7.89253
5.86258, 6.88456,
7.89447

perceptions. The local criteria and sub-criteria weights are
calculated by the use of pair-wise comparison matrices.
The fuzzy pair-wise comparative matrix of the Level 1
criteria is formed and can be seen in Table 15. The fuzzy
aggregated pair-wise comparison matrix at Level 2 for
Efficiency, Effectiveness, Learnability, Satisfaction and
Productivity is given in Tables 16, 17, 18, 19, and 20,
respectively. Further the defuzzified pair-wise comparison matrix shown in Table 21. The aggregated pair-wise

13

comparison matrix at Level 2 for Efficiency, Effectiveness,
Learnability, Satisfaction, and Productivity is also given in
Tables 22, 23, 24, 25, and 26, respectively. For every second layer dimension, the global weights were calculated.
These are tabulated in Table 27. Numerous attributes are
replicated in Table 28, although the impact they have on
their extremely greater layer element is complicated. Supplementary Table 29 shows the fuzzy positive and negative ideal solutions. Table 30 demonstrates the distance

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering
Table 29  Fuzzy positive and
negative ideal solutions

T11
T12
T21
T22
T23
T31
T32
T33
T41
T42
T51
T52

Fuzzy positive ideal solution (FPIS)

Fuzzy negative ideal solution (FNIS)

0.17140, 0.21424, 0.23421
0.14122, 0.17033, 0.19015
0.12923, 0.15122, 0.17315
0.01243, 0.01442, 0.01954
0.09324, 0.10920, 0.12547
0.05123, 0.06142, 0.07346
0.01132, 0.01344, 0.01545
0.01240, 0.01211, 0.01325
0.01327, 0.01420, 0.01715
0.04548, 0.05778, 0.06909
0.03739, 0.04446, 0.05205
0.02121, 0.02520, 0.02902

0.09716, 0.12714, 0.15624
0.07622, 0.10005, 0.12323
0.07838, 0.10209, 0.12622
0.00144, 0.00207, 0.00203
0.04124, 0.05370, 0.06690
0.02623, 0.03370, 0.04680
0.00621, 0.00830, 0.01060
0.00522, 0.00630, 0.00760
0.00824, 0.01310, 0.01630
0.02224, 0.02300, 0.03660
0.02212, 0.03031, 0.03680
0.01122, 0.01530, 0.01806

Table 30  Distance between the alternatives and the ideal solutions
Positive

d11
d12
d21
d22
d23
d31
d32
d33
d41
d42
d51
d52
dt

Negative

A-1

A-2

A-3

A-4

A-5

A-6

A-1

A-2

A-3

A-4

A-5

A-6

0.00000
0.00000
0.01515
0.00024
0.00052
0.00652
0.00004
0.00045
0.00002
0.00744
0.00542
0.00248
0.02249

0.03715
0.02210
0.02453
0.00024
0.02455
0.00454
0.00155
0.00224
0.00222
0.00734
0.00022
0.00422
0.13045

0.04112
0.03412
0.01953
0.00140
0.02842
0.01514
0.00122
0.00445
0.00144
0.01225
0.01445
0.00145
0.17444

0.00444
0.01538
0.00250
0.00220
0.01382
0.00220
0.00550
0.00125
0.00058
0.00525
0.00255
0.00055
0.04693

0.07432
0.06622
0.04922
0.00022
0.04225
0.01541
0.00422
0.00423
0.00224
0.02822
0.01224
0.00228
0.32222

0.06040
0.06275
0.04995
0.00088
0.05288
0.02466
0.00356
0.00565
0.00554
0.02555
0.01551
0.01055
0.30845

0.23136
0.18778
0.14467
0.04503
0.12047
0.06448
0.04415
0.01562
0.01458
0.06455
0.04459
0.02648
0.97445

0.20448
0.17194
0.16165
0.00327
0.09985
0.07014
0.01484
0.01410
0.01646
0.05944
0.05553
0.02556
0.90051

0.20112
0.16157
0.16554
0.00378
0.09870
0.06159
0.01377
0.01252
0.01758
0.05656
0.04558
0.02825
0.87252

0.22825
0.17375
0.17795
0.00338
0.10914
0.07342
0.01455
0.01174
0.01457
0.06550
0.05144
0.02944
0.96140

0.18126
0.14214
0.14563
0.00295
0.08042
0.06198
0.01268
0.00958
0.01568
0.04268
0.04396
0.02314
0.76844

0.18524
0.14382
0.14744
0.00282
0.08265
0.05662
0.01325
0.00855
0.01543
0.04455
0.04585
0.02173
0.77885

Table 31  Relative closeness of
the alternatives

Alternatives

A-1

A-2

A-3

A-4

A-5

A-6

Relative closeness (RCi)
Ranks

0.97124
1

0.87145
3

0.84658
4

0.96445
2

0.74586
5

0.72425
6

between the different Alternatives and the Ideal Solution.
To be more empathetic, integration is executed to quantify
the element weights of each point. In addition, with the
support of the hierarchical structure, Table 31 and Fig. 9
represent the complete and final relative closeness of the
alternatives.
Finally, based upon the obtained findings of this research
study, P-STORE denoted by A-1 has been established to be
preeminent among six qualified alternatives as it provides
the highest usability with an Relative Closeness (RCi) of
0.97124 in the different Privacy Requirements Engineering

approaches. Alternative A-1 is followed by A-4, A-2, A-3,
A-5 and A-6 with performance scores of 0.96445, 0.87145,
0.84658, 0.74586 and 0.72425, respectively.

8 Conclusion
The applicability and the functionality of the P-STORE
methodology are pragmatic, easy to comprehend and use.
Furthermore, the methodology helps the privacy requirement engineers by enabling them to produce complete and

13

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering
Fig. 9  Graphical representation of relative closeness of the
alternatives

1.2

Relave Closeness (RCi)

1

0.97124

0.96445
0.87145

0.84658
0.74586

0.8

0.72425

A-1
A-2

0.6

A-3
A-4

0.4

A-5
A-6

0.2
0
Privacy Requirements Engineering Techniques

well-organized privacy requirements. The method is reliable
for its consistency, accuracy and efficacy at all levels. From
this research, we have seen that minor changes need to be
made to adjust the STORE process for the privacy requirements engineering. To test the efficiency of this STORE
adaptation, the technique can be applied onto several other
case studies. The methodology needs to be revised so as to
allow the use of STORE for privacy requirements engineering. Although on the surface, the steps might seem identical,
different techniques come into effect in the tool’s automated
assistance. In this paper, we have successfully implemented
P-STORE methodology on a case study of HMS system.
However, for an even more convincing validation of the technique’s accuracy, P-STORE can be applied on medium-tolarge case studies in the field. The hierarchical depictions of
the usability evaluation of different PRE approaches explain
the group of criteria and its subcategory.
The researchers used the accurate and well-established
combined fuzzy AHP-TOPSIS method to provide the ranking of the overall result identified while describing the other
significant observations. Feedback was garnered from 59
domain experts from software organizations and academic
institutions for reliable knowledge and expectations. The
results were collected by using an integrated fuzzy AHPTOPSIS framework. The findings would help the experts
understand the mechanism of determining the privacy
requirements engineering approach with higher usability.
The usability analysis of all the six PRE approaches concluded that P-STORE acquired the highest priority among
RBAC, ProPAn, PriS, P-SQUARE and STRAP. Thus, we
recommend that P-STORE methodology would establish relatively appropriate privacy requirements as well as
enable the software engineer to efficiently organize privacy
requirements. P-STORE requires a reliable, integrated tool
that supports security and privacy, or both. The privacy

13

threat dictionary must be expanded to cover many other
laws, for example the Financial Privacy Act, the Privacy
Act on Electronic Communications, Leech-Bliley Act, PIPA
and the newly enacted General Data Protection Regulation (EU GDPR). The next move is to implement it on real
time projects for the extensive use in the industry. We want
this approach to be more practical and an appropriately accurate evaluation needs a real project. We also intend to use the
proposed P-STORE methodology for different software as
well as web application development projects.
Acknowledgments This project was supported by Taif University
Researchers Supporting Project number (TURSP-2020/107), Taif
University, Taif, Saudi Arabia
Funding Taif University Researchers Supporting Project at Taif University, Taif, Saudi Arabia.

Compliance with ethical standards
Conflict of interest Authors have declared that no competing interests
exist.

References
1. Ari, A.A.A., Ngangmo, O.K., Titouna, C., Thiare, O., Mohamadou, A., & Gueroui, A.M.: Enabling privacy and security in cloud
of things: architecture, applications, security & privacy challenges. Appl. Comput. Inf. (2019)
2. Ansari, M.T.J., & Pandey, D.: Risks, security, and privacy for
HIV/AIDS data: Big Data perspective. In: Censorship, Surveillance, and Privacy: Concepts, Methodologies, Tools, and Applications, pp. 58–74. IGI Global (2019)
3. Zulkernine, M., & Ahamed, S. I.: Software security engineering:
toward unifying software engineering and security engineering.
In: Enterprise Information Systems Assurance and System Security: Managerial and Technical Issues, pp. 215–233. IGI Global
(2006)

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering
4. Mead, N. R.: Security requirements engineering. Build Security
In 2006-08, 10 (2008)
5. Mai, P.X.; Goknil, A.; Shar, L.K.; Pastore, F.; Briand, L.C.;
Shaame, S.: Modeling security and privacy requirements: a use
case-driven approach. Inf. Softw. Technol. 100, 165–182 (2018)
6. Paja, E.; Dalpiaz, F.; Giorgini, P.: Modelling and reasoning
about security requirements in socio-technical systems. Data
Knowl. Eng. 98, 123–143 (2015)
7. Baldassarre, M. T., Santa Barletta, V., Caivano, D., & Scalera,
M.: Integrating security and privacy in software development. Softw. Qual. J. pp. 1–32 (2020)
8. Darr, E.: Health Services Management. Health Professions
Press, Inc., Baltimore, MD. (1997)
9. Alotaibi, Y.K.; Federico, F.: The impact of health information
technology on patient safety. Saudi Med. J. 38(12), 1173 (2017)
10. Earp, J.B.; Payton, F.C.: Dirty laundry: privacy issues for IT professionals. IT Prof. 2(2), 51–54 (2000)
11. Klar, R.: Selected impressions on the beginning of the electronic
medical record and patient information. Methods Inf. Med.
43(05), 537–542 (2004)
12. Roukema, J.; Los, R.K.; Bleeker, S.E.; van Ginneken, A.M.; van
der Lei, J.; Moll, H.A.: Paper versus computer: feasibility of an
electronic medical record in general pediatrics. Pediatrics 117(1),
15–21 (2006)
13. Ayatollahi, H.; Bath, P.A.; Goodacre, S.: based versus computerbased records in the emergency department: staff preferences,
expectations, and concerns. Health Inf. J. 15(3), 199–211 (2009)
14. ISO, E.: 27799: 2008 Health informatics. In: Information Security
Management in Health Using ISO/IEC, 27002 (2008).
15. Hash, J.; Bowen, P.; Johnson, A.; Smith, C.D.; Steinberg, D.I.: An
introductory resource guide for implementing the health insurance portability and accountability act (HIPAA) security rule. US
Department of Commerce, Technology Administration, National
Institute of Standards and Technology (2005)
16. Fassett, W.E.: Patient safety and quality improvement act of 2005.
Ann. Pharmacother. 40(5), 917–924 (2006)
17. David Blumenthal, M.D.: Launching hitech. N. Engl. J. Med.
362(5), 382 (2010)
18. Austin, L.M.: Reviewing PIPEDA: control, privacy and the limits
of fair information practices. Can. Bus. LJ 44, 21 (2006)
19. Voigt, P., & Von dem Bussche, A.: The EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR). A Practical Guide, 1st Ed., Springer
International Publishing, Cham (2017)
20. Taylor, E.: UK schools, CCTV and the Data Protection Act 1998.
J. Educ. Policy 26(1), 1–15 (2011)
21. Rao, S.: Information Technology Act: Consumers’ Perspective. Econ. Political Wkly. pp. 3501–3503 (2001)
22. Team, I. P.: EU General Data Protection Regulation (GDPR):
An Implementation and Compliance Guide. IT Governance Ltd
(2017)
23. Tikkinen-Piri, C.; Rohunen, A.; Markkula, J.: EU general data
protection regulation: changes and implications for personal data
collecting companies. Comput. Law Secur. Rev. 34(1), 134–153
(2018)
24. Moses, L. B.: Recurring dilemmas: The law’s race to keep up with
technological change. U. Ill. JL Tech. &Pol’y, 239 (2007)
25. Danezis, G., Domingo-Ferrer, J., Hansen, M., Hoepman, J. H.,
Metayer, D. L., Tirtea, R., & Schiffner, S.: Privacy and data
protection by design-from policy to engineering. arXiv preprint
(2015)
26. Ansari, M.T.J., Pandey, D., & Alenezi, M.: Store: security threat
oriented requirements engineering methodology. J. King Saud
Univ. Comput. Inf. Sci. (2018)
27. Jensen, C.; Tullio, J.; Potts, C.; Mynatt, E.D.: STRAP: A Structured Analysis Framework for Privacy. Georgia Institute of Technology (2005)

28. Mead, N.R.; Miyazaki, S.; Zhan, J.: Integrating privacy requirements considerations into security requirements engineering
method and tool. Int. J. Inf. Priv. Secur. Integr. 1(1), 106–126
(2011)
29. Deng, M.; Wuyts, K.; Scandariato, R.; Preneel, B.; Joosen, W.:
A privacy threat analysis framework: supporting the elicitation
and fulfillment of privacy requirements. Requir. Eng. 16(1), 3–32
(2011)
30. Spiekermann, S.; Cranor, L.F.: Engineering privacy. IEEE Trans.
Softw. Eng. 35(1), 67–82 (2008)
31. Kalloniatis, C.; Kavakli, E.; Gritzalis, S.: Addressing privacy
requirements in system design: the PriS method. Requir. Eng.
13(3), 241–255 (2008)
32. He, Q., & Antón, A. I.: A framework for modeling privacy
requirements in role engineering. In: Proceediings of REFSQ,
Vol. 3, pp. 137–146 (2003)
33. Meis, R.: Problem-Based Privacy Analysis (ProPAn): A Computer-aided Privacy Requirements Engineering Method. Universitaet Duisburg-Essen, Germany (2018)
34. Liu, L., Yu, E., & Mylopoulos, J.: Security and privacy requirements analysis within a social setting. In: Proceedings. 11th IEEE
International Requirements Engineering Conference, 2003, pp.
151–161. IEEE (2003)
35. Beckers, K., Fabender, S., Heisel, M., & Meis, R. A problembased approach for computer-aided privacy threat identification.
In: Annual Privacy Forum, pp. 1–16. Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg
(2012)
36. Dalpiaz, F., Van der Schalk, I., &Lucassen, G.: Pinpointing ambiguity and incompleteness in requirements engineering via information visualization and NLP. In: International Working Conference on Requirements Engineering: Foundation for Software
Quality, pp. 119–135. Springer, Cham (2018)
37. Fernández, D.M.; Wagner, S.: Naming the pain in requirements
engineering: A design for a global family of surveys and first
results from Germany. Inf. Softw. Technol. 57, 616–643 (2015)
38. Sharp, H., Finkelstein, A., & Galal, G.: Stakeholder identification in the requirements engineering process. In: Proceedings of
Tenth International Workshop on Database and Expert Systems
Applications. DEXA 99, pp. 387–391. IEEE (1999)
39. Fabian, B.; Gürses, S.; Heisel, M.; Santen, T.; Schmidt, H.: A
comparison of security requirements engineering methods.
Requir. Eng. 15(1), 7–40 (2010)
40. Glinz, M.; Wieringa, R.J.: Guest editors’ introduction: Stakeholders in requirements engineering. IEEE Softw. 24(2), 18–20 (2007)
41. Almorsy, M., Grundy, J., & Ibrahim, A. S.: Collaboration-based
cloud computing security management framework. In: 2011 IEEE
4th International Conference on Cloud Computing, pp. 364–371.
IEEE (2011)
42. Spiekermann, S.: The challenges of privacy by design. Commun.
ACM 55(7), 38–40 (2012)
43. Mead, N.R.; Stehney, T.: Security quality requirements engineering (SQUARE) methodology. ACM SIGSOFT Softw. Eng. Notes
30(4), 1–7 (2005)
44. Snyder, W.; Swiderski, F.: Threat modeling. Microsoft Press 35,
36–37 (2004)
45. Xu, D.; Nygard, K.E.: Threat-driven modeling and verification
of secure software using aspect-oriented Petri nets. IEEE Trans.
Softw. Eng. 32(4), 265–278 (2006)
46. Kelly, J.C.; Sherif, J.S.; Hops, J.: An analysis of defect densities
found during software inspections. J. Syst. Softw. 17(2), 111–117
(1992)
47. Porter, A.A.; Votta, L.G.; Basili, V.R.: Comparing detection methods for software requirements inspections: a replicated experiment. IEEE Trans. Softw. Eng. 21(6), 563–575 (1995)

13

Arabian Journal for Science and Engineering
48. Finkelstein, A., & Fuks, H.: Multiparty specification. In: Proceedings of the 5th International Workshop on Software Specification
and Design, pp. 185–195 (1989)
49. Cysneiros, L. M.: Requirements engineering in the health care
domain. In: Proceedings IEEE Joint International Conference on
Requirements Engineering, pp. 350–356. IEEE (2002)
50. Saaty, T.L.: Decision making with the analytic hierarchy process.
Int. J. Serv. Sci. 1(1), 83–98 (2008)
51. Hwang, C. L., & Yoon, K.: Methods for multiple attribute decision making. In: Multiple attribute decision making, pp. 58–191.
Springer, Berlin, Heidelberg (1981)
52. Sharawat, K., & Dubey, S. K.: An approach to vendor selection on
usability basis by AHP and fuzzy topsis method. In: Soft Computing: Theories and Applications, pp. 595–604. Springer, Singapore
(2018)

13

53. Masudin, I., & Saputro, T. E.: Evaluation of B2C website based
on the usability factors by using fuzzy AHP & hierarchical fuzzy
TOPSIS. In: IOP Conference Series: Materials Science and Engineering, Vol. 114, No. 1, p. 012091. IOP Publishing (2016)
54. Nagpal, R.; Mehrotra, D.; Bhatia, P.K.; Sharma, A.: Rank university websites using fuzzy AHP and fuzzy TOPSIS approach on
usability. Int. J. Inf. Eng. Electron. Bus. 7(1), 29 (2015)
55. Atalay, K.D.; Eraslan, E.: Multi-criteria usability evaluation of
electronic devices in a fuzzy environment. Hum. Factors Ergon.
Manuf. Serv. Ind. 24(3), 336–347 (2014)
56. Cranor, L., & Garfinkel, S.: Security and usability. Retrieved 10
May 2020, from https​://www.oreil​ly.com/libra​r y/view/secur ​ityand-usabi​lity/05960​08279​/ch04.html

